Clarice Starling is dead, laid out in fatigues across a bench
in the back of a ratty, rattling undercover van.  Three other
agents sit perched on the opposite bench, staring at her
lifeless body.

		BURKE
	How can she sleep at a time like this?

		BRIGHAM
	She's on a jump-out squad all night;
	she's saving her strength.

INT. UNDERGROUND GARAGE - DAY

Gray cement walls blur past as the panel van descends a
circular ramp to a lower level.  As it straightens out, the
view through the windshield reveals a gathering of men and
vehicles - marked and unmarked DC police cars - and two black
SWAT vans.

The panel van - with Marcell's Crab House painted on its
sides - pulls to a stop.  The back doors open from the inside
and Starling is the first one out - well-rested and alert -
hoisting down her equipment bag.

One of the DC policemen, the one whose girth and manner
say he's in charge, watches the woman by the van slip into a
Kevlar vest, drop a Colt .45 into a shoulder holster, and a
.38 into an ankle holster.  She straightens up, approaches
the men and lays a street plan across the hood of one of
their cars.

		STARLING
	All right, everyone, pay attention.
	Here's the layout -

		BOLTON
	Excuse me, I'm Officer Bolton, DC Police.

		STARLING
	Yes, I can see that from your uniform
	and badge, how do you do?

		BOLTON
	I'm in charge here.

Starling studies him a moment.  He sniffs as if that might
help confirm his weighty position.

		STARLING
	You are?

		BOLTON
	Yes, ma'am.

Starling's glance finds Brigham's.  His says, Just let it
go.  Hers says back, I can't.

		STARLING
	Officer Bolton, I'm Special Agent
	Starling, and just so we don't get off
	on the wrong foot, let me explain why
	we're all here.

Brigham shakes his head to himself in weary anticipation of
her 'explanation.'

		STARLING
	I'm here because I know Evelda Drumgo,
	I've arrested her twice on RICO warrants,
	I know how she thinks.  DEA and BATF, in
	addition to backing me up, are here for
	the drugs and weapons.  You're here, and
	it's the only reason you're here, because
	our mayor wants to appear tough on drugs,
	especially after his own cocaine
	conviction, and thinks he can accomplish
	that by the mere fact of having you tag
	along with us.

Silence as the gathering of agents and policemen stare at her
and Bolton.

		BOLTON
	You got a smart mouth, lady.

		STARLING
	Officer, if you wouldn't mind, I'd
	appreciate it if you took a step or two
	back, you're in my light.

Bolton takes his time, but eventually backs away a step.

		STARLING
	Thank you.  All right.
		(re: the street plan)
	The fish market backs on the water.
	Across the street, ground floor, is the
	meth lab --

EXT. FISH MARKET AND STREETS - DAY

The Macarena blares from a boom box.  Snappers, artfully
arranged in schools on ice, stare up blankly.  Crabs scratch
at their crates.  Lobsters climb over one another in tanks.

One of the black SWAT vans turns down a side street.  The
other takes an alley.  The Marcell's Crab House van continues
straight along Parcell Street.

INT. PANEL VAN - DAY

A 150-pound block of dry ice tries to cool down the heat
from all the bodies in the van - Starling and Brigham, the
two other agents, Burke and Hare, and her new best friend,
Officer Bolton.  As they drive along, Bolton watches as she
takes several pairs of surgical gloves from her equipment
bag, slips one pair on, and hands the rest to the others, the
last pair offered to him.

		STARLING
	Drumgo's HIV positive and she will spit
	and bite if she's cornered, so you might
	want to put these on.
		(Bolton takes the gloves and
		 puts them on)
	And if you happen to be the one who
	puts her in a patrol car in front of the
	cameras, and I have a feeling you will
	be, you don't want to push her head down,
	she'll likely have a needle in her hair.

EXT. FISH MARKET AREA - DAY

The swat vans pull into position, one to the side of the
building across from the fish market, the other around back.
As the battered van pulls to the curb in front, a mint low-
rider Impala convertible, stereo thumping, cruises past.

INT. PANEL VAN - DAY

The thumping fades, leaving the Macarena filtering in.
Starling pulls the cover off the eyepiece of a periscope
bolted to the ceiling of the van and makes a full rotation
of the objective lens concealed in the roof ventilator, catching
glimpses of:

A man with big forearms cutting up a mako shark with a
curved knife, hosing the big fish down with a powerful hand-
held spray.

Young men idling on a corner in front of a bar.  Others
lounging in parked cars, talking.  Some children playing by
a burning mattress on the sidewalk; others in the rainbow
spray from the fishmonger's hose.

The building across from the fish market with the metal door
above concrete steps.  It opens.

		STARLING
	Heads up.

A large white man in a luau shirt and sandals comes out
with a satchel across his chest, other hand behind the case.
A wiry black man comes out the door behind him, carrying a
raincoat, and behind him, Evelda Drumgo.

		STARLING
	It's her.  Behind two guys.  Both
	packing.

		BRIGHAM
		(into a radio)
	Strike One to all units.  Showdown.
	She's out front, we're moving.

Starling and the others put on their helmets.  Brigham racks
the slide of his riot gun.  The back doors opena and Starling
is the first one out, barking -

		STARLING
	Down on the ground!  Down on the ground!

No one gets down on the ground - not Evelda Drumgo, not her
men, none of the merchants or bystanders.  The Macarena keeps
blaring.

Drumgo turns and Starling sees the baby in the blanketed
sling around her neck.  She can also hear the roar of a big
V8 and hopes it's her backup.

Drumgo turns slightly and the baby blanket flutters as the
MAC 10 under it fires, shattering Brigham's face shield.  As
he goes down, Hawaiian Shirt drops his satchel and fires a
shotgun, blowing out the car window next to Burke.

Gunshots from the V8, a Crip gunship, a Cadillac, coming
toward Starling.  Two shooters, Cheyenne-style in the rolled-
down window frames, spraying automatic fire over the top.

Starling dives behind two parked cars.  Hare and Bolton
fire from behind another.  Auto glass shatters and clangs on
the ground.

Everyone in the market scrambling for cover, finally hitting
the fish-bloodied cement.  The Macarena still blasting.

Pinned down, Starling watches the wiry black man drop back
against the building, Drumgo picks up the satchel, the gunship
slowing enough for someone to pull her in.

Starling stands and fires several shots, taking out Hawaiian
Shirt, the other man by the building, the driver of the accel-
erating Cadillac, one of the men perched on the window frames
- drops the magazine out of her .45 slams another in
before the empty hits the ground.

The Cadillac goes out of control, sideswiping a line of
cars, grinds to a stop against them.  Starling moving toward
it now, following the sight of her gun.  A shooter still
sitting in a window frame, alive but trapped, chest
compressed between the Cadillac and a parked car.  Gunfire
from somewhere behind Starling hits him and shatters the rear
window.

		STARLING
	Hold it!  Hold your fire!  Watch the door
	behind me!  Evelda!

The firing stops but the pounding of The Macarena doesn't.

		STARLING
	Evelda!  Put your hands out the window!

Nothing for a moment.  Then Drumgo emerges from the car, head
down, hands buried in the blanket-sling, cradling the crying
baby.

		STARLING
	Show me your hands!
		(Evelda doesn't)
	Please!  Show me your hands!

Evelda looks up at her finally, fondly it seems, doesn't show
her hands.

		DRUMGO
	Is that you, Starling?

		STARLING
	Show me your hands!

		DRUMGO
	How you been?

		STARLING
	Don't do this!

		DRUMGO
	Do what?

She smiles sweetly.  The blanket flutters.  Starling falls.
Fires high enough to miss the baby.  Hits Drumgo in the neck.
She goes down.

Starling crawling in the street, the wind knocked out of
her from the hits to her chest, to her vest.  Reaches Drumgo,
blood gushing out of her onto the baby.  She pulls out a
knife.  Cuts the harness straps.  Runs with the baby to the
merchant stalls as enterprising tourists click shots from the
ground with disposable cameras.

Starling sweeps away knives and fish guts from a cutting
table.  Lays the baby down.  Strips it.  Grabs the handheld
sprayer and washes at the slick coating of HIV positive blood
covering the baby, a shark's head staring, Macarena pounding,
disposable cameras clicking, the river of bloody water
running along a gutter to where Brigham lies dead.

EXT. ARLINGTON CEMETERY - DAY

Gray sky.  Rain coming down.  A large gathering, many in
uniform, standing in wet grass around an open grave, the rain
spilling off the rims of their umbrellas.

A casket is being lowered in.  Starling watches as it
decends, watches the gears of the hoist working and the box
disappearing beneath the edge of the muddy hole, not allowing
herself to cry, or to meet the eyes of certain other mourners
watching her.

EXT. ARLINGTON CEMETERY - LATER - DAY

Long line of parked cars, some marked, most not, many with
government plates.  Smoke plumes from the exhaust of the one
idling nearest, a Crown Victoria.

Inside the car, Starling sits in the front passenger seat
with a cardboard box on her lap, a middle-aged man in Marine
dress blues beside her at the wheel.  The wipers slap back
and forth.

		HAWKINS
	You like to think when it's over your
	things would fill more than one cardboard
	box.

Starling touches the things in the box:  a BATF badge, a
couple of laminated clip-on ID cards with Brigham's face on
them, a medal, a pen set, a compass paper-weight, two guns
and a framed desk photo of a dog.

		HAWKINS
	John's parents don't want it.  Any of
	it.  Except the dog.  Don't want to be
	reminded.

		STARLING
	I want to be reminded.

		HAWKINS
	I figured.  He was your last compadre on
	the street, wasn't he.

		STARLING
	My last compadre.

He sits watching her touch the things, and will continue to
do so as long as she wants.  Eventually, she folds down the
cardboard flaps.  Hawkins looks up ahead -

		HAWKINS
	All they'll get with tinted windows is
	pictures of themselves, but it won't stop
	them from trying.  You ready?

She is.  He pulls away from the curb.  A handful of wet
photographers appears in the windshield's view up ahead.  As
the car passes, their cameras swing around to point at
Starling's side of it and flash like stars.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - FBI DC FIELD OFFICE - DAY

The words "Fidelity, Bravery, Integrity" skew as a glass
door opens.  Starling comes in to find several men awaiting
her, all balanced on Florsheim wingtips and tasseled Thom
McAn loafers.

		PEARSALL
	Agent Starling, this is John Eldredge
	from DEA; Assistant Director Noonan, of
	course you know; Larkin Wayne, from our
	Office of Professional Responsibility;
	Bob Sneed, BATF; Benny Holcome, Assistant
	to the Mayor; and Paul Krendler - you
	know Paul.  Paul's come over from Justice
	- unofficially - as a favor to us.  In
	other words, he's here and he's not here.

A couple of the men bobbed their heads at the mention of
their names; none offered his hand.  Starling sits a thin
manila folder on her lap.  A silence stretches out as each
man regards her.  Finally -

		SNEED
	I take it you've seen the coverage in
	the papers and on television.
		(nothing from Starling)
	Agent Starling?

		STARLING
	I have nothing to do with the news, Mr.
	Sneed.

		SNEED
	The woman had a baby in her arms.  There
	are pictures.  You can see the problem.

		STARLING
	Not in her arms, in a sling across her
	chest.  In her arms, she had a MAC 10.
	Mr. Pearsall?  This is a friendly
	meeting, right?

		PEARSALL
	Absolutely.

		STARLING
	Then why is Mr. Sneed wearing a wire?

Pearsall glances to Sneed and his tie clasp.  Sneed sighs.

		SNEED
	We're here to help you, Starling.
	That's going to be harder to do with a
	combative attitude like -

		STARLING
	Help me what?  Your agency called this
	office and got me assigned to help you on
	the raid.  I gave Drumgo a chance - two
	chances - to surrender.  She didn't.  She
	fired.  She shot John Brigham.  She shot
	at me.  And I shot her.  In that order.
	You might want to check your counter
	right there, where I admit it.

A silence before the man from the Mayor's Office speaks up -

		HOLCOME
	Ms. Starling, did you make some kind
	of inflammatory remark about Ms. Drumgo
	in the van on the way?

		STARLING
	Is that what your Officer Bolton is
	saying?
		(he chooses not to say)
	I explained to him, and the others in
	the van, that Drumgo was HIV positive and
	would think nothing of infecting them,
	and me, any way she could given the
	chance.  If that's inflamma -

		HOLCOME
	Did you also say to him at one point
	that a splash of Canoe is not the same
	as a shower?
		(she doesn't answer)
	Did Officer Bolton smell bad to you?

		STARLING
	Incompetence smells bad to me.

		HOLCOME
	You shot five people out there, Agent
	Starling.  That may be some kind of
	record.  Is that how you define
	competence?

A beeper goes off.  Every one of the men checks the little
box on his belt.  It's Noonan's.  He excuses himself from the
room.

		STARLING
	Can I speak freely, Mr. Pearsall?
		(he nods)
	This raid was an ugly mess.  I ended
	up in a position where I had a choice of
	dying, or shooting a woman carrying a
	child.  I chose.  I shot her -

FLASHCUT to Drumgo - hit in the neck by Starling's bullet -
silently falling to the ground -

		STARLING
	I killed a mother holding her child.
	The lower animals don't do that.  And I
	regret it.  I resent myself for it.  But
	I resent you, too - whichever of you
	thinks that by attacking me, bad press
	will go away.  That Waco will go away.  A
	mayor's drug habit.  All of it.

FLASHCUT to Drumgo, lying dead in the road, then back here
again to Starling, "watching" her in silence.

Noonan pokes his head in, gestures to Pearsall to join him
in the anteroom.  Krendler invites himself along.  Sneed and
Holcome get up and stare out the window.  Eldredge paces, his
wingtips soundlessy dragging on the carpet.

		WAYNE
	I know you haven't had a chance to write
	your 302 yet, Starling, but -

		STARLING
	I have, sir.  A copy's on its way to
	your office.  I also have a copy with me
	if you want to review it now.  Everything
	I did and saw.

She hands it to him.  He begins leafing through it.
Pearsall and Krendler reappear -

		PEARSALL
	Assistant Director Noonan is on his way
	back to his office, Gentlemen.  I'm going
	to call a halt to this meeting and get
	back to you individually by phone.

Sneed cocks his head like a confused dog.

		SNEED
	We've got to decide some things here.

		PEARSALL
	No, we don't.

		SNEED
	Clint -

		PEARSALL
	Bob, believe me, we don't have to decide
	anything right this second.  I said I'll
	get back to you.
		(Pearsall's look to Starling
		 says she's free to leave; she
		 gets up)
	And, Bob?

Pearsall grabs the wire behind Sneed's tie and pulls it down
hard, the adhesive tape taking some chest hair along with it -
judging from the grimace - as it comes away from his skin.

		PEARSALL
	You ever come in here wired again, I'll
	stick it up your ass.

INT. HALL OUTSIDE - MOMENTS LATER

Krendler - the only man who didn't speak in the meeting -
idles outside.  As Starling approaches -

		KRENDLER
	That was no free lunch, Starling.
	I'll call you.

She keeps going.  He admires the back of her legs.

EXT. COUNTRY CLUB - MIAMI - DAY

Jack Crawford misses a 20-foot putt by inches.

		GOLF PAL
	Oh ... bad luck, Jack.

Crawford stares at the missed shot.  Then spikes across the
18th green, taps it in, and groans the way anyone over forty
does as he bends down to retrieve it.

Pocketing it he turns, sees Starling standing outside the
club house.  She waves, bending just a couple of fingers, and
he smiles, pleased, but not surprised to see her.

EXT. MIAMI - DAY

Crawford and Starling driving in his car, the clubs in the
back seat.  Palm trees float by.

		STARLING
	What's your handicap?

		CRAWFORD
	My handicap is I can't play golf.

		STARLING
	Maybe better clubs would help.

		CRAWFORD
	I play with the best clubs money can buy.
	It's not the clubs, it's a woeful lack of
	talent.

		STARLING
	Or interest.

He nods - yeah, that's the real problem with it - turns onto
another street.

		CRAWFORD
	Were my flowers at John's service okay?
	Lot of times, flowers by wire, you never
	know.

		STARLING
	They were canary daffodils.
		(he groans)
	I put your name on my flowers.

		CRAWFORD
	Thank you.

		STARLING
	Thank you.  For the call.  At the
	Inquisition.  I don't know what you said
	to them, but it worked.

		CRAWFORD
	Don't thank me too quickly.

EXT. MIAMI - DAY

Downtown.  Skyscrapers.

INT. BUILDING - DAY

Frameless glass doors in a sleek office building, etched:
Allied Security, Threat Assessment, Miami, Los Angeles, Rio
de Janeiro.  Crawford holds one open for Starling and
follows her into a handsome reception area.

		RECEPTIONIST
	How was it?  Better today?

		CRAWFORD
	The clubs are in the dumpster downstairs
	if anyone wants them.

He leads Starling deeper into the place, past pairs of men
in nice suits conferring in the doorway of a kitchenette and
over by a long bank of filing cabinets.  Male and female
secretaries move about.

		CRAWFORD
	Nice, huh?  This could all be yours,
	Starling.  I can get you a PI ticket in
	Florida tomorrow, you can chase insurance
	scams, extortion against the cruise
	lines, put down the gun and have some fun
	with me.

Crawford accepts a handful of pink phone-message slips as
they come past his secretary's desk, holds another door open
and Starling steps into his office.

		STARLING
	Tempting.

		CRAWFORD
	Just wait.

The door closing softly behind her says, "expensive
hardware."

INT. CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY

They sit, Crawford behind his mahogany desk, Starling in a
comfortable chair.  As he rifles through the phone
messages -

		CRAWFORD
	The call I made wasn't to Assistant
	Director Noonan.  Whoever called him, I
	don't know.  I called Mason Verger.

He lets the name sink in, lets her dive for it, try to
place it.  She can't.  It's familiar but doesn't connect to
anything stable.

		CRAWFORD
	Lecter's fourth victim, Starling.
	The one who lived, if you can call it
	living.  The rich one.

He slides over a couple of photographs of a young man with a
kind, trusting face.  Now she remembers him.

		CRAWFORD
	I told Mason I wanted you off the
	street.  I told him what I told you when
	I left the Bureau, "You go out with a gun
	enough times, you will be killed by one."
	I told him I want you where you belong,
	in Behavioral Science.  Know what he said?

		STARLING
	He can speak?

		CRAWFORD
	It's about the only thing he can do.
	He said, after a very long pause, "Oh,
	what a good idea, Jack."
		(Crawford tries to smile)
	Who he called, I don't know.  Someone
	higher up than anyone in that room with
	you.  Maybe Representative Vollmer, who
	Mason may not own, but does rent from
	time to time.

Silence as Starling tries to take it all in.  She looks up
with a question forming in her mind, and Crawford nods before
she can say it.  Very matter of fact -

		CRAWFORD
	Yeah, that's right, it means going back
	on the Lecter case.

He busies himself with the phone messages again, arranging
them in little, prioritized piles on his desk, as if perhaps
this conversation is about nothing more important than a
simple missing person case.

		STARLING
	What if I said to you I'd rather not
	do that?  What if I said to you I prefer
	the street?

		CRAWFORD
	You think this is a cheap deal?  What
	you were getting was a cheap deal.  What
	they say about federal examiners is true:
	they arrive after the battle and bayonet
	the wounded.  You're not safe on the
	street anymore.

Starling takes another look at the photographs of Verger.

		STARLING
	Has something happened on the case?

		CRAWFORD
	Has Lecter killed anybody lately?  I
	wouldn't know, I'm retired from all that.
	Mason doesn't know either, but he does
	apparently have some new information -
	which he'll only share with you.

They consider one another for a long moment.  Finally -

		CRAWFORD
	He's not pretty, Starling.  And I don't
	just mean his face.

EXT. MARYLAND - DAY

Bare trees.  Overcast sky.  Starling's Mustang growling along
the rain-slicked expressway.

INT. MUSTANG - MOVING - DAY

A Maryland state map spread out across the passenger seat.
Starling's eyes darting back and forth between the black and
red route-veins and the shrouded countryside out beyond the
slapping wiper blades.

An exit sign - and the exit itself - looms suddenly and
rushes across the right side of her windshield.  She curses
to herself.  It's the exit she wanted, but now it's gone,
shrinking in her rearview mirror into the mist.

EXT. THE VERGER ESTATE - DAY

Coming back the other way along a service road, Starling
slows to consider a chain-link gate stretched across a muddy
road, then continues on.

At the gate house of the main entrance, a security guard
checks her name against a list.  He seems reluctant to get
himself or his clipboard wet, but not her identification,
handing it out past the edge of his umbrella to her.

The Mustang negotiates a long circuitous drive, taking her
deeper and deeper into vast forest land.  Eventually, though,
a good mile from the gate house behind her, the trees give
way to a clearing, and she sees the big Stanford White-
designed mansion emerging from the mist up ahead.

A man waits under an umbrella out front, indicates to her
where to park - anywhere, one should think - there's enough
space for fifty cars - then comes around to the driver's side
and opens the door.

		CORDELL
	Ms. Starling.  Hi.  I'm Cordell.  Mr.
	Verger's private physician.

		STARLING
	How do you do?

She gathers her things out from under the map:  file folder,
micro-cassette recorder, extra tapes and batteries.  He helps
her out, then presses up against her to help maximize the
umbrella's effectiveness.

		CORDELL
	Shall we make a run for it?

As they hurry toward the porch - if it can be called a
porch, as grand an entrance as a king's, or English rock
star's manor - Starling notices the building's one modern
wing, sticking out like an extra limb attached in some
grotesque medical experiment.

INT. VERGER'S MANSION - DAY

They cross through a living room larger than most houses,
then down a hall, their shoes moving along a Moroccan runner,
sleeves past portraits of important-looking dead people.

As they cross a threshold there's an abrupt shear in style:
the rich carpet giving way to polished institutional floors,
the portrait-lined walls to shiny white enamel.

Cordell reaches for the handle of a closed door in the new
wing, and Starling notices line of lights appear around the
jamb where there were none.

As the door opens, she squints.  Two small photographer's
spots on stands pitch narrow beams of light into her face and
seem to follow her progress into the room.

		CORDELL
		(a whisper)
	One's eyes adjust to the darkness.
	This way is better.

He leads her to a sitting area where a print of William
Blake's "The Ancient of Days" hangs above a large aquarium
divided in two by a wall of glass - an ell gliding around on
one side, a fish on the other.  A bank of security monitors
completes the decor.  To the spotlight -

		CORDELL
	Mr. Verger, Ms. Starling is here.

The light stands flank a hospital bed, the beams effectively
camouflaging the figure on it in their glare.

		STARLING
	Good morning, Mr. Verger.

		MASON
	Cordell, do you address a judge as Mr?

The voice is steady and resonant.  An "educated" voice, not
unlike Lecter's.  Before Cordell can answer him -

		MASON
	Agent Starling is her proper title,
	not "Ms."

		CORDELL
	Agent Starling.

		MASON
	Correct.  Good morning, Agent Starling.
	Have a seat.  Make yourself comfortable.

		STARLING
	Thank you.

Starling sits with her things.  Snaps open the little door of
her cassette recorder to verify there's a tape inside.

		MASON
	Was that a Mustang I heard out there?

		STARLING
	Yes, it was.

		MASON
	Five-liter?

		STARLING
	'88 Stroker.

		MASON
	Fast.

		STARLING
	Yes.

		MASON
	Where'd you get it?

		STARLING
	Dope auction.

		MASON
	Very good.

		STARLING
	Mr. Verger, the discussion we're going
	to have is in the nature of a deposition.
	I'll need to tape record it if that's all
	right with you.

		MASON
	Cordell, I think you can leave us now.

		CORDELL
	I thought I might stay.  Perhaps I could
	be useful if -

		MASON
	You could be useful seeing about my
	lunch.

Starling gets up, but not to see him out.  Once he's gone -

		STARLING
	I'd like to attach this microphone to
	your - clothing, or pillow - if you're
	comfortable with that.

		MASON
	By all means.

She walks slowly toward the bed, or rather to the lights,
uncertain exactly what position Verger may be in - on his
back, his side; she has no way of knowing.

		MASON
	Here, this should make it easier.

A finger like a pale spider crab moves along the sheet and
depresses a button.  The lights suddenly extinguish and
Starling's pupils dilate.  As her eyes adjust to the darkness
Verger's face materializes in it like something dead rising
up through dark water:

Face is the wrong word.  He has no face to speak of.  No
skin, at least.  Teeth he has.  He looks like some kind of
creature that resides in the lowest depths of the sea.

She doesn't flinch.  Maybe the hand with the microphone
recoils an inch or two, but that's it.  She clips it to the
flannel lapel of his pajamas, drapes the skinny cord over the
side of the pillow and sets the recorder on the medical table
next to the bed.

		MASON
	You know, I thank God for what happened.
	It was my salvation.  Have you accepted
	Jesus, Agent Starling?  Do you have
	faith?

		STARLING
	I was raised Lutheran.

		MASON
	That's not what I asked -

		STARLING
	This is Special Agent Clarice Starling,
	FBI number 5143690, deposing Mason R.
	Verger, Social Security number -

		MASON
	- 475-98-9823 -

		STARLING
	- at his home on the date stamped above,
	sworn and attested.
		(she drags over a chair)
	Mr. Verger, you claim to have -

		MASON
	I want to tell you about summer camp.
	It was a wonderful childhood experience -

		STARLING
	We can get to that later.  The -

		MASON
	We can get to it now.  You see, it all
	comes to bear, it's where I met Jesus and
	I'll never tell you anything more impor-
	tant than that.  It was a Christian camp
	my father paid for.  Paid for the whole
	thing, all 125 campers on Lake Michigan.
	Many of them were unfortunate, cast-off
	little boys and girls would do anything
	for a candy bar.  Maybe I took advantage
	of that.  Maybe I was rough with them -

		STARLING
	Mr. Verger, I don't need to know about
	the sex offenses.  I just -

		MASON
	It's all right.  I have immunity, so
	it's all right now.  I have immunity from
	the U.S. Attorney.  I have immunity from
	the D.A. in Owings Mills.  I have
	immunity from the Risen Jesus and nobody
	beats the Riz.

		STARLING
	What I'd like to know is if you'd ever
	seen Dr. Lecter before the court assigned
	you to him for therapy?

		MASON
	You mean - socially?
		(laughs)

		STARLING
	That is what I mean, yes.  Weren't you
	both on the board of the Baltimore Phil-
	harmonic?

		MASON
	Oh, no, my seat was just because my
	family contributed.  I sent my lawyer
	when there was a vote.

		STARLING
	Then I'm not sure I understand how he
	ended up at your house that night, if
	you don't mind talking about it.

		MASON
	Not at all.  I'm not ashamed.

		STARLING
	I didn't say you should be.

		MASON
	I invited him, of course.  He was too
	professional to just sort of "drop in."
	I answered the door in my nicest come-
	hither leather outfit.

FLASHCUT of the door opening, revealing Verger, in his
leather gear, his face young and pretty.

		MASON
	I was concerned he'd be afraid of me,
	but he didn't seem to be.  Afraid of me;
	that's funny now.

FLASHCUT of Verger leading Lecter upstairs, each with a glass
of wine in hand.

		MASON
	I showed him my toys, my noose set-up
	among other things - where you sort of
	hang yourself but not really.  It feels
	good while you - you know.

FLASHCUT to some dogs watching Verger with the noose around
his neck, and Lecter offering him some amyl nitrite.

		MASON
	Anyway - he said, Would you like a
	popper, Mason?  I said, Would I.  And
	whoa, once that kicked in I knew it was
	more than simple amyl, it was some kind
	of custom meth-angel-acid highball.
	Lovely.  I was flying -

FLASHBACK to Mason's image in a full-length mirror shattering
as Lecter kicks it.

		MASON'S VOICE
	The good doctor came over with a piece
	of broken mirror.  Mason, he said -

		LECTER
	- show me how you smile to get the
	confidence of a child.

Lecter holds a shard of mirror glass in front of him.

		LECTER
	Uh-huh.  Do you ever smile?  Oh, I see
	how you do it.
	Now Mason, let's say you had to hide
	that kindly, fictitious mask?  How would
	you do it?

Verger tries to look serious, or mean, but his features are
just too sweet, even with a noose around his neck.

		LECTER
	No, I still see it.  Try again.
		(Verger tries again)
	No.  No, I'm afraid not.  Try this.
		(hands him the glass)
	Try peeling off your face with this and
	feeding it to the dogs.

As Verger lifts the broken glass to his face -

BACK TO the faceless Verger in the bed, his claw of a hand
gripping invisible glass -

		MASON
	Well, you know the rest.
		(shrugs)
	Seemed like a good idea at the time.

Starling looks like someone who has just received much more
information than she ever needed or wanted.  Cordell comes in
quietly with Verger's lunch on a rolling cart, and trying not
to interrupt, arranges the silverware and pours some water.

		STARLING
	Mr. Verger, you -

		MASON
	Are you shocked, Agent S?

		STARLING
	You indicated to -
		(her eyes dart to the tape, and
		 his follow them)
	- to my office - that you've received
	some kind of new information.

		MASON
	Look in the drawer of the end table.

Starling takes out a pair of thin cotton gloves and puts
them on.  In the drawer she finds a large manila envelope and
in it, an x-ray of an arm.

		STARLING
	Where did this come from?

		MASON
	Buenos Aires.  I received it two weeks
	ago.

		STARLING
	Where's the package it came in?

		MASON
	The package it came in... good question.
	I don't know.  There was nothing written
	on it of interest.  Did I throw it out?

Starling smells a rat, but keeps it to herself.  Takes a
closer look at the x-ray while Cordell busies himself climb-
ing a step ladder next to the aquarium.

		MASON
	Think it will help?  I hope so.  I hope
	it'll help you catch him, if for no other
	reason than to heal the stigma of your
	recent dishonor.

She switches off the tape recorder.

		STARLING
	Thank you, that's all I -

		MASON
	Did you feel some rapport with Dr.
	Lecter in your talks at the asylum?
	I know I did while I was peeling.

		STARLING
	We exchanged information in a civil way.

		MASON
	But always through the glass.

		STARLING
	Yes.

		MASON
	The eel and fish become accustomed to
	each other through the glass.  They're
	even company for one another.

Cordell's gloved hand grips the snapper and transfers it to
the other side of the aquarium, where the eel at once rips a
piece out of it.  Starling tries to ignore it and reaches to
unclip the microphone from Verger's pajames lapel.

		MASON
	Isn't it funny?

Nothing is particularly funny to her right now.

		STARLING
	What's that?

		MASON
	You can look at my face, but you shied
	when I said the name of God.

INT. EVIDENCE STORAGE - QUANTICO - DAY

A clerk is cataloging strange items from another case as
Starling inspects what he brought her on Lecter.  There's not
much there.  One cardboard box-worth, some files, video tape.

		CLERK
	Not finding what you want?

		STARLING
	Are you sure this is all of it?

		CLERK
	That's all of it now.  There used to be
	more, but it's been picked over little by
	little over the years.  It's worth a lot
	of money in certain circles.  Like the
	cocaine that disappears around here.
	Little by little.

INT. BASEMENT - BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE - DAY

The room Starling's been given to work out of used to be
the department's basement darkroom.  There's almost nothing
in it now.  Couple of old enlargers, chemical trays, an ugly
rented couch, a metal desk, a computer, and a blackboard on
wheels she has chalked with the headings "Lecter" and
"Verger," a few scribbled notes under each name.

She's taken the video tape from the paltry contents of the
evidence box and puts in in a VCR.  In a moment, a scene in
black and white, captured by a security camera at the
Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane, plays out
in silence:

Lecter wired up for an EKG.  A female nurse getting too
close.  Lecter attacking her.  Biting her.  A black orderly
rushing in and roughly subduing him, breaking his arm in the
process, then attending to the fallen nurse.

INT. BASEMENT - BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE - LATER

A cursor blinks in a search panel.  Starling types in
"Hannibal Lecter," enters it and waits.

The laptop screen fills with a listing of sites, the first
20 of 611,046, according to the engine.  A banner to one side
offers, "Amazon.com ... Hannibal Lec ... Save up to 50% ...
Shop-4-Pokemon."

One of the listings is the FBI's own consumer site, others
refer to published articles by and about Lecter, but most
have names like, "Hannibal's Chamber of Horrors," and
"Fava Beans Anyone?"

Starling scrolls down to the bottom query panel to narrow
her search.  Adds, "memorabilia," and hits Enter.  The screen
fills with another listing of sites, like, "Kenny's Trading
Post," and, "World Wide Collectibles," with brief
descriptions of some of the wares offered:

"Credit card receipt from Dean & DeLuca w/genuine signature
of Hannibal Lecter, $550 OBO / PP."

"Mark McGuire 1998 season home run ball (#67), w/papers,
all reasonable offers considered."

"Flatware w/etched lions on handles, owned by Hannibal
Lecter.  24 pieces, one spoon missing.  Real.  No dealers.
$6,500."

"Hockey, basketball (and non-sports) trading cards."

"Lecter victim (#3) Sam Sirrah's death certificate.  Not a
Xerox.  Nice frame.  Price upon request."

"Hannibal Lecter's '62 Mercedes.  Really.  Only two owners
since incarceration.  Clean.  85,000."

"Valentine card from H. Lecter.  Signed.  Sweet sentiment.
Hate to part with it but need money.  $950."

No x-rays.  Starling thinks.  Clears the address in the top
panel and types something else.  A new screen appears, headed
with bold, colorful lettering:  "eBay."

She types in "Hannibal Lecter" again.  Hits the "Find it!"
button.  An auction screen appears.  14 items.  "H. Lecter x-
ray" second from the top.  "Item #194482661."  61 bidders.
In red:  "Ends in 49 Mins."

She highlights the item and is taken to the details screen.
Scrolls down.  No photo, but there is a description:  "Left
arm x-ray of Hannibal Lecter.  Very rare.  Slightly used
metal light box included."

She backs up to the previous screen.  Last bid, "$7,200."
Next increment, $100.  She types in "$10,000" and hits Enter.

INT. SCI-FI COMICS - DAY

Strange denizens - collectors - roam the shelves lined with
plastic-sheathed science fiction comic books - browsing and
humming - each in his own world.

In truth, they're not really browsing; they're stealing
glances at Starling, the only woman in the place, and the
most beautiful one any of them has ever seen in real life.

In truth, she isn't really browsing either.  She's stealing
glances at the proprietor behind the glass-top, trading card-
filled, counter.

		CUSTOMER
	December you mean -

		PROPRIETOR
	No, not December.  November.  Volume
	Four, Number Four.  Worst.  Issue.  Ever.

The customer moves on.  Starling wanders over and several
pairs of eyes wander with her.  A tape of the X-Files plays
on a small television set at one end of the counter, which
the proprietor pays more attention to than her.  Quietly -

		STARLING
	I'm interested in Hannibal Lecter
	memorabilia.

The man's head slowly turns to her with the most withering
of looks.  She's the last person on earth who'd be interested
in Hannibal Lecter memorabilia.

		PROPRIETOR
	I don't handle Hannibal Lecter
	memorabilia.  Hannibal Lecter memorabilia
	- real Hannibal Lecter memorabilia -
	would have to be stolen.  I don't deal in
	stolen goods.  Try Sotheby's.

		STARLING
	I'm confused.

		PROPRIETOR
	You're a policeman, of course you're
	confused.

		STARLING
	Not exactly.

		PROPRIETOR
	Oh, all right.  Police woman.  I keep
	the politically-correct comics in the
	back.  By the toilet scrubber.

She show him her identification.  Her FBI shield.  Some
of the other customers see it, too, and - crushed - begin
gliding toward the door.

		STARLING
	I'm confused because I just paid you ten
	thousand dollars for an x-ray of Hannibal
	Lecter.  I don't want to wait for you to
	send it, I want to pick it up now.

The dime drops.  Just a fleeting spark of realization.

		PROPRIETOR
	No, if you paid me ten thousand dollars
	for an x-ray of Hannibal Lector, I would
	possess a money order, or cashiers check,
	for ten thousand dollars, which I do not.
	You bid ten thousand dollars for an
	x-ray of Hannibal Lecter.  I've decided,
	in the interim, not to sell it.  You're
	free to write a nasty comment about me
	on the e-Bay message board.

		STARLING
	I'm free to write a nasty comment about
	you on your arrest report.

		PROPRIETOR
		(sighs)
	The x-ray I was thinking of selling,
	but have now decided against, is not of
	Hannibal Lecter.  How do I know this?
	Because it's of me.  This arm.
		(pointing to it, then to the
		  other one)
	No, this one.

Now she sighs.  She should just leave.

		PROPRIETOR
	Wait a minute.  I know you.
		(he brightens considerably)
	You're -

He rummages behind the counter and comes up with a recent,
plastic-wrapped issue of the National Tattler tabloid, with
gory pictures of the shoot-out and the screaming headline -
"DEATH ANGEL:  CLARICE STARLING, THE FBI'S KILLING MACHINE."

		PROPRIETOR
	Would you be so kind, Miss Starling,
	as to sign this for me?  I apologize for
	my - um - my -

		CUSTOMER'S VOICE (O.S.)
	Rude -

		PROPRIETOR
	Rude - behavior - before.

He delicately slips the newspaper from its plastic cover.
Checks the condition of the tip of a fine-line Sharpie.  His
eyes are eager now, his demeanor painfully solicitous, like a
sweetly disarming little boy waiting for the baseball players
to finish batting practive.  Starling turns and leaves.

EXT. MARYLAND-MISERACORDIA GENERAL HOSPITAL - DAY

A wailing siren.  Ambulance pulling up in front of an
Emergency Entrance.  Paramedics climb out, hoist down a
gurney and the bleeding gunshot victim on in, and hurry him
in past the automatic doors.  The doors thump shut.

A moment later they open again and an orderly - same one
from the tape - steps out, finished with his shift, coat over
his uniform.  He hitches up his collar and steps out into the
drizzling rain as Starling, across the street in a hooded
sweatshirt, watches.

EXT. STREETS - LATER - DAY

The orderly moves along a wet sidewalk, heading home,
Starling following at a distance.  He stops.  She stops.  He
glances to something in the middle of the street.  A dead
dove, one wing fluttering in the wind.  He looks up.  Sees
its mate pacing on a wire.  Car tires hiss past below.

Starling watches as he crosses to the center of the street,
picks up the dead dove and pockets it, crosses back and
continues on.  She, and the surviving bird, follow.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING - UPSTAIRS HALL - DAY

Starling knocks.  Waits.  The door opens and the orderly
peers out with the dead dove in his hands.

		STARLING
	Hi, Barney.  I need to talk with -

		BARNEY
	Would you agree, for the record, Officer
	Starling, I've not been read my rights?

		STARLING
	This is just informal.  I just need to
	ask you about some stuff.

		BARNEY
	How about saying it into your handbag?

Starling opens her purse and speaks down into it as though
there were a troll inside -

		STARLING
	I have not Mirandized Barney.  He is
	unaware of his rights.

Barney widens the door so she can come in.

INT. BARNEY'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Barney sets the dove on a desk and drags a computer mouse
to the "file close" x.  Just before the screen reverts to the
AOL Welcome page, Starling glimpses the site he was on when
she interrupted him with her knock - stock quotes.

		STARLING
	How you been?

He doesn't answer.  Sits his huge frame down on his desk
chair.  She moves some newspapers aside on a couch, one of
which shows a photo of her from the Drumgo raid.  They
consider each other for a moment.  Eventually -

		STARLING
	Barney, back when you turned Dr. Lecter
	over to the Tennessee Police -

		BARNEY
	They weren't civil to him.  And they're
	all dead now.

		STARLING
	Yeah.  They only managed to survive his
	company three days.  You survived him six
	years at the asylum.  How'd you do that?
	It wasn't just being civil.

		BARNEY
	Yes, it was.

They both hear something - a flutter - and glance out to the
fire escape.  The dead dove's mate has landed on the railing.

		STARLING
	Did you ever think, once he escaped,
	he might come after you?

		BARNEY
	No.  He told me once that, whenever
	feasible, he preferred to eat the rude.
	"Free-range rude," he called them.

He smiles.  Glances out the window again to the cooing dove.
Picks up the dead one, carries it out and sets it down on the
wet grating.

		STARLING
	Any idea what happened to all his stuff?
	His books and papers and drawings and -

		BARNEY
	Everything got thrown out when the place
	closed.

He comes back in.  She starts to say something, hesitates.
Once she starts on this subject, she knows one of them will
wind up very unhappy.

		STARLING
	Barney, I just found out that Dr.
	Lecter's signed copy of The Joy of
	Cooking went to a private collector for
	sixteen thousand dollars.

		BARNEY
	It was probably a fake.

		STARLING
	The seller's affidavit of ownership
	was signed, Karen Phlox.  You know Karen
	Phlox?  You should.  "She" filled out
	your employment application, only at the
	bottom she signed it, Barney.  Same thing
	on your tax returns.

Long silence.  Then Barney sighs.

		BARNEY
	You want the book?  Maybe I could get
	it back.

		STARLING
	I want the x-ray.  From when you broke
	his arm after he attacked that nurse.

Barney gets up again, but doesn't run off to get it.  He
slowly paces around.

		BARNEY
	We talked about a lot of things, late at
	night, after all the screaming died down.
	We talked about you sometimes.  Want to
	know what he said?

		STARLING
	No, just the x-ray.

		BARNEY
	Is there a reward?

		STARLING
	Yeah.  The reward is I don't have my
	friend the Postal Inspector nail you on
	Use of the Mails to Defraud, you don't
	get ten years, and you don't come out
	with a janitor's job and a room at the Y,
	sitting on the side of your bunk at night
	listening to yourself cough.

He stares at her, gets up finally, disappears into the
bedroom.  Starling looks out to the fire escape again.  The
surviving dove has dropped down and is now walking in circles
around its lifeless mate.

Barney returns with a file box and a large envelope.  Hands
it all to her.  She unfurls the string-clasp.  Pulls out an x-
ray of an arm.  A radiologist's and Lecter's names are on it.

		BARNEY
	I'm not a bad guy.

		STARLING
	I didn't say you were.

		BARNEY
	Dr. Chilton is a bad guy.  After your
	first visit, he began taping your conver-
	sations with Dr. Lecter.

He produces from his jacket pocket several cassette tapes.
As he hands them to her -

		BARNEY
	I was good to you.  Tried to make it
	easy for you the first time you came down
	to the violent ward to interview Dr.
	Lecter.  Remember?

		STARLING
	Yes.

		BARNEY
	You remember saying thank you?

She doesn't because she didn't, and now regrets it.

		STARLING
	I'm sorry.  Thank you.

		BARNEY
	You mean it?

		STARLING
	Yes.

		BARNEY
	I'm going to show you something then.
	I don't have to show it to you, remember
	that.  But I believe your gratitude is
	sincere.

He goes to a fuse box on the wall.  Takes something out of
it.  Turns around to face Starling, wearing the famous mask
from Silence of the Lambs, and her hand flashes toward her
sidearm, a movement quickly stopped.

		BARNEY
	This is my retirement fund.
		(removes the mask)
	If you'll let me keep it.  I can a lot
	of money for this and get out of here for
	good.  I want to travel, and see every
	Vermeer in the world before I die.

She thinks about it, doesn't immediately answer him.  He
walks out onto the fire escape again and addresses the bird -

		BARNEY
	Go on.  You've grieved long enough.

He shoos the dove away, picks up the dead one, comes back
in and drops it in the wastebasket by his desk.

		STARLING
	What did he say?  About me?  Late at
	night.

		BARNEY
	We were talking about inherited, hard-
	wired behavior.  He was using genetics in
	roller pigeons as an example.
	They go way up in the air and roll over
	backwards in a display, falling toward
	the ground.  There are shallow rollers
	and deep rollers.  You can't breed two
	deep rollers or the offspring will roll
	all the way down, crash and die.  He
	said, "Officer Starling is a deep roller,
	Barney.  Let's hope one of her parents
	was not."

As Starling gets up and gathers everything except the mask,
she hears the surviving dove call out once from somewhere in
the trees.

INT. FBI LAB - DAY

The two x-rays, one overlaid on the other, clipped to a
light box.  A technician adjusts them so the bone structures
correspond in position as closely as possible and points out
to Starling -

		TECHNICIAN
	They're the same arm.  The discrepancy is
	the dates.  This one -

He slides the x-rays apart, touches a thin gray line on one
of them -

		TECHNICIAN
	- shows the hairline fracture he
	sustained in the fight with the orderly.
	This one -
		(the other x-ray)
	- the more recent one, supposedly,
	doesn't.  This is the newer of the two -
		(the other one)
	- the one from the asylum.

INT. BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE - LATER

Starling puts the earliest-dated cassette into a player,
presses "play," walks up to the blackboard and under Verger's
heading - below "Meat-packing heir" and some other notes -
writes, "He lies."  From the tape player -

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Surely the odd confluence of events
	hasn't escaped you, Clarice.  Jack Craw-
	ford dangles you in front of me, then I
	give you a bit of help.  Do you think
	it's because I like to look at you and
	imagine how good you would taste?

There's a pause.  Starling, remembering the moment clearly
even now, mouths along with her recorded voice -

		STARLING'S VOICE
	I don't know.  Is it?

INT. CELL - BALTIMORE STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE CRIMINALLY
INSANE - DAY - (FLASHBACK - 1994)

It's Lecter's cell.  And it's almost pitch black.  Then,
as he turns a rheostat, the lights slowly rise, revealing the
cell to be almost empty, stripped of its books.  He's lying
on his cot.

		LECTER
	I've been in this room for eight years,
	Clarice.  I know they will never - ever -
	let me out while I'm alive.  What I want
	... is a view.

EXT. FLORENCE - DAY

One of the most magnificent views in the world.

Drifting across it, then down, reveals a piazza below.
Outside a cafe, a figure in a dark overcoat, his back to us,
drops crumbs to a hundred pigeons surrounding him.

Closer, the pigeons swirl around his shoes.  And slowly the
figure turns to face us.  It's not Hannibal Lecter.  It's
someone we don't recognize.

He lets go the last of the crumbs, brushes his gloves
together, and crosses toward the ancient Palazzo Vecchio,
glancing once at its high, stone walls and arched windows,
its medieval bell tower soaring into the sky.

INT. PALAZZO VECCHIO - DAY

Checking his watch, but in no hurry, he climbs a flight
of marble steps.  Unlike here, one more often smokes indoors
than out, and the man lights an MS cigarette, his reward for
reaching the landing.

		ECHOING VOICE
	The Capponi correspondence goes back to
	the 13th Century.  Dr. Fell might hold in
	his hand, in his non-Italian hand, a note
	from Dante Alighieri himself, but would
	he recognize it?  I think not -

He follows the echoing voice to the open doorway of a large
frescoed room, the Salon of Lilies, where another gentleman,
loitering outside it, pats at his pockets.  The man we've
been following offers, along with an outstretched hand
holding his pack of cigarettes -

		PAZZI
	They're still arguing.

		RICCI
		(nodding)
	The curatorship.  Sogliato wants the
	job for his nephew.  The scholars seem
	satisfied with the temporary guy they
	appointed.

Pazzi lights Ricci, glances down the hall to the far end,
where a janitor slowly guides a floor polisher back and forth
like a big, weak motorcycle, then crosses to and peers into
the Salon:

It's under long-term restoration, scaffolding everywhere.
A large assembly of men ranging in age from middle-aged to
the Middle Ages, it seems, are gathered around a long 12th-
century table.  The echoing voice belongs to -

		SOGLIATO
	You have examined him in medieval
	Italian, and I'll not deny his language
	is admirable.  For a straniero.  But what
	if he came upon a note in the Capponi
	library, say, from Guido de'Cavalcanti to
	Dante?  Would he recognize it?  I think
	not.

Pazzi isn't sure which one is Fell.  Scanning the room
from the doorway, he tries to locate the source of the voice,
but it's difficult, the high ceillings playing hell with the
acoustics -

		DR. FELL
	Professor Sogliato, if I might.
	Cavalcanti, as we all know, replied
	publicly to Dante's first sonnet in La
	Vita Nuova.  If he commented privately as
	well, if he wrote to a Cappono, to which
	would it be?  In your opinion?
		(Sogliato clearly can't even
		 name the Capponi)
	No?  Not even a guess?  Andrea, don't you
	think?  Since he was more literary than
	his brothers.

Several of the other scholars nod their heads in agreement,
which only embarrasses Sogliato more.  Pazzi knows which man
at the table Fell is now, however he - and we - still can't
see his face, seated as he is with his back to the door.

		SOGLIATO
	If he is such an expert on Dante let
	him lecture on Dante - to the Studiolo.
	Let him face them, if he can.

		DR. FELL
	I'd look forward to it.  Shall we set
	the date now?

Sogliato has had enough and gets up, noisily gathering his
things.  As the meeting breaks up some of the other committee
members shake Fell's hand.  Pazzi comes in and approaches
Fell - from behind - as the others straggle out.

		PAZZI
	Dr. Fell?

Fell turns.  Of course, it's Hannibal Lecter.

		PAZZI
	Chief Inspector Rinaldo Pazzi of the
	Questura.

		DR. FELL
		(shaking his hand)
	Commendatore.  How can I be of service?

		PAZZI
	I'm investigating the disappearance of
	your predecessor, Signore de Bonaventura.
	I was wondering if -

		DR. FELL
	Predecessor implies I have the job.
	Unfortunately, I don't.  Not yet.  Though
	I'm hopeful.  They are letting me look
	after the library.  For a stipend.

Fell begins gathering his books and papers, placing them
neatly in his satchel.

		PAZZI
	Yes.  Well -

		DR. FELL
	What do you think happened to him?

		PAZZI
	To your - to the Signore - who can say?
	Perhaps he ran off.  Bad debts.  Bad love
	affair.  I was wondering if you might -

		DR. FELL
	Not another victim of Il Mostro?

		PAZZI
	What?  No.  That I'm sure.  We find Il
	Mostro's victims.  He makes sure we find
	them.

		DR. FELL
	Or she.

		PAZZI
	Or she.

		DR. FELL
	I never actually met Signore de
	Bonaventura.  I have read several of his
	monographs in the Nuova Antologia.

		PAZZI
	The officers who first checked, didn't
	find any sort of - farewell or - suicide
	note.  I was wondering if -

		DR. FELL
	If I happen to come across anything in
	the Capponi Library, stuffed in a book or
	a drawer - yes, I'll call you at once.

He accepts Pazzi's card and slips it under a paperclip
holding some of his notes together.

		PAZZI
	Thank -

		DR. FELL
	You've been reassigned.

Pazzi was just turning to leave.  Turns back.

		PAZZI
	Pardon?

		DR. FELL
	You were on the Il Mostro case, I'm sure
	I read.

		PAZZI
	That's right.

And it was a humiliation being taken off of it, which he
would no doubt rather not discuss here.

		DR. FELL
	Now you're on this.  This is much less -
	grand - a case, I would think.

		PAZZI
	If I thought of my work in those terms,
	yes, I guess I'd agree.

		DR. FELL
	A missing person.

Fell says it like it's not worth saying.  Pazzi's had enough
and turns to leave again.

		DR. FELL
	Were you unfairly dismissed from the
	grander case?  Or did you deserve it?

Pazzi looks back again.  Fell isn't even looking at him;
putting things in his case.

		PAZZI
	Regarding this one, Dr. Fell.  Are the
	Signore's personal effects still at the
	Palazzo?

		DR. FELL
	Packed neatly in two cases with an
	inventory.  Alas, no note.

		PAZZI
	I'll send someone over to pick them up.
	Thank you for your help.

He starts to leave again.

		DR. FELL
	Have you thought about Botticelli?

Pazzi looks back again.  What is Fell talking about?

		PAZZI
	Not since middle school art class, I'm
	afraid.

		DR. FELL
	Those awful pictures in the papers
	of The Monster's victims.  His careful
	arrangement of the young lovers' bodies.
	The flowers.  The women's exposed left
	breast.  The tableaux remind me of
	Botticelli.  Don't they, you?

Frankly, it never occurred to him.  Fell points to a place
just behind Pazzi and he turns to see a beautiful Botticelli
in a carved gold frame, the woman lying in flowers, her left
breast exposed.  Fell shrugs as he closes his satchel.

		DR. FELL
	Maybe a clue.

EXT. FELL'S RESIDENCE - NIGHT

A row of family palaces in an ancient street.  A figure
walking on the cobblestones.  Only vaguely familiar, his path
leads us to the front of an old residence, its windows behind
iron grates, all but one on an upper floor dark.  The figure
continues on down the street, but we go inside -

INT. FELL'S RESIDENCE - NIGHT

Even though the foyer is dark, we can tell it's large and
high-ceilinged.  We become aware of music - Bach's Goldberg
Variations - but can't be sure where it's coming from.

We notice a staircase and decide to climb it.  It's longer
than we thought at first - its steps made of thick slabs of
ancient stone, its rail of cold hammered iron.

We reach the landing.  Notice a small darkened room to
one side.  But the music seems to be coming from elsewhere, so
we continue on, down the hall to a pair of tall double doors,
open, allowing us into the main salon.  The music seems to be
coming from somewhere in here.

We move through the room, illuminated only faintly by the
occasional candle, look up to see that the height of the room
disappears into darkness, then down again as we are almost
upon the figure sitting at a piano.

Lecter's fingers move among the yellowed ivory keys.  He
plays the Bach piece well, every so often glancing to a lyre-
shaped music stand.  But coming slowing around the stand, we
discover there is no sheet music on it, but instead a copy of
the National Tattler with a picture of a black woman dead in
the street, and another picture of Clarice Starling - the
FBI's "ANGEL OF DEATH" - washing down a baby next to the
head of a shark.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Dear Clarice, I have followed with
	enthusiasm the course of your disgrace
	and public shaming.  My own never
	bothered me, except for the inconvenience
	of being incarcerated, but you may lack
	perspective -

The music continues over:

INT. FELL'S RESIDENCE - LATER - NIGHT

Sitting at a 16th Century refectory table in a pool of lamp
light, Lecter dips the tip of a fountain pen into an etched
glass bottle of ink and signs the letter he has just written.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	In our discussions down in the dungeon,
	it was apparent to me that your father -
	the dead night watchman - figures large
	in your value system.

He adds a brief post-script, folds the linen-fiber paper over
once, careful to line up the edges, gives it a sharp crease.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	I think your success in putting an end to
	Jame Gumb's career as a couturier pleased
	you most because you could imagine your
	father being pleased.

He places the letter in an envelope that is already addressed
to Special Agent Clarice Starling, and seals it with wax.  He
places it into another, slightly larger envelope that already
has written on it a Las Vegas, Nevada, address.

EXT. FLORENCE - DAY

Lecter strolls across a bridge over the Arno and drops his
envelope into a post box on the other side.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Now you are in bad odour with the
	FBI, alas.  Do you imagine Daddy shamed
	by your disgrace?  Do you see him in his
	plain pine box, crushed by your failure?
	The sorry, petty end of a promising
	career?

EXT. LAS VEGAS - DAY

A U.S. Mail carrier's truck pulls into the parking lot of a
strip mall.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Do you dream now, not of screaming
	lambs, but of yourself doing the menial
	tasks your mother was reduced to after
	the addicts busted a cap on Daddy?

INT. RE-MAILING SERVICE - LAS VEGAS - DAY

Piles of mail on the counter.  A middle-aged man slits open
the envelope from Italy, takes out the smaller envelope, puts
a stamp on it, drops it onto a pile of outgoing mail and
throws the larger envelope away.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	What is worst about this humiliation?
	Is it how your failure will reflect on
	them?  Is your worst fear that people
	will forever now believe your parents
	were indeed trailer camp tornado-bait
	white trash?  That you are?  Hmmm?

INT. FBI BASEMENT - DAY

The letter is among stacks of others in a metal cart as it is
wheeled along a basement corridor.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	I couldn't help noticing on its rather
	dull public web site, Clarice, that I've
	been hoisted from the Bureau's Archives
	of the Common Criminal up to the more
	prestigious 10 Most Wanted list.

The mail cart comes to and past a door on which, instead of
a nameplate, is Scotch-taped a piece of legal pad paper with
one hand-scrawled word:  "Starling."

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Coincidence?  Or are you "back on the
	case?"

INT. STARLING'S LECTEREUM - CONTINUOUS

The mail room boy navigates the short maze of black right-
angled darkroom walls that lead to the room itself.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	I imagine you sitting in a dark base-
	ment room, bent over papers and computer
	screens at clerk's distances that mocks
	the prairie distance in your eyes.  A
	zoo hawk, one wing hanging down.

The mail room boy sets three or four things down on
Starling's desk.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Is that fairly accurate?  Tell me
	truly, Special Agent Starling.  Regards,
	Hannibal Lecter, M.D.

The music ends.  To the mail room boy -

		STARLING
	Thanks.

He doesn't immediately leave.  He watches her tack to a
bulletin board the last of several newspaper clippings and
Internet downloads of grisly unsolved murders world-wide.

		GEOFFREY
	How's it going?  Any leads?

		STARLING
	They're all leads.  They just don't lead
	to him.

She sits at her desk to take a look at the mail.  Geoffrey
wanders over to take a look at the clippings.  He grimaces at
one of them.

		GEOFFREY
	I don't know how you live with this
	stuff.

		STARLING
	Oh, God.

He turns.  She's looking at one of her pieces of mail.

		STARLING
	It's from the Guinness Book of World
	Records congratulating me on being "The
	Female FBI Agent Who Has Shot The Most
	People."

She throws it in the wastebasket, picks up the envelope
with the wax seal and fine copperplate writing, and somehow
immediately knows who it's from.

		STARLING
	Geoffrey - ?  Would you excuse me.

He sees she isn't looking at him.  Leaves with his cart.
Annoyed at herself for getting her paw prints all over the
letter, she reaches for her key chain, slits the envelope
with the Swiss Army knife on it, and extracts and unfolds the
letter with the blade.  As she reads it, there is a faint
echoing refrain of Bach's Goldberg Variations, and -

		LECTER'S VOICE
	P.S.  Clearly this new assignment is
	not your choice.  Rather, it is part of
	"the bargain."  But you accepted it,
	Clarice.  Your job is to craft my doom.
	As such, I'm not sure how well to wish
	you.  Ta-ta.  H.

INT. FBI LAB - DAY

Digitized images of the letter alongside "Early Lecter"
handwriting samples on a computer monitor.

		TECHNICIAN
	The letter was written by Lecter, but
	you could probably tell that just from
	reading it.

Starling nods.  Other images replace the writing analyses:
sets of fingerprints.

		TECHNICIAN
	Naturally, there were several prints on
	the envelope, including yours -

		STARLING
	- sorry -

		TECHNICIAN
	On the letter itself there's only one
	"partial" - here - not enough to hold up
	in court, but -

		STARLING
	We know it's him.  Where he was when
	he wrote it is what I need.

The image changes again - a greatly magnified patch of the
letter that reads, "screaming lambs."

		TECHNICIAN
	The paper isn't going to help.  Yes, it's
	linen fiber.  Yes, it's on the expensive
	side.  No, it's not so rare that you
	couldn't find it in a thousand stationery
	stores the world over.
	Same with the ink.  Same with the wax.
		(an image of the envelope
		 appears on the monitor)
	The post mark.  Las Vegas.  You could
	check it out, but odds are it came from a
	a re-mailing service.  Afraid you're out of
	luck.

		STARLING
	What about the crease?

		TECHNICIAN
	The what?

INT. PERFUMERY - NEW JERSEY - DAY

Stainless stell tweezers pluck the letter from the evidence
bag and hold it, crease up, under an enormous nose.  The nose
sniffs only once, but long, taking in a faint, pleasant aroma
of residue and a lot of air.

The hand clutching the tweezers clutching the letter are
passed to another - feminine - hand, which holds it up to
another enormous nose with wide nostrils.  This nose sniffs
once and hands the tweezers to another - masculine - hand.
This one lifts the letter to the biggest nose of all.

		BIGGEST NOSE
	Hand soap ... Raw ambergris base ...
	Tennessee lavender ... mountain sage ...
	trace of something else ...

		LESS BIGGEST NOSE
	Fleece.

		LEAST BIGGEST NOSE
	Fleece.

		BIGGEST NOSE
	It's fleece, isn't it.  Lovely.

The other two "perfume engineers" nod.  All three, and
Starling, are sitting in a sterile laboratory environment.

		STARLING
	What's ambergris?

		BIGGEST NOSE
	Ambergris is a whale product.  Alas,
	much as we'd like to, we can't import it.
	Endangered Species Act.

The other two shake their heads as if to say, What a load of
crap that Endangered Species Act is.

		STARLING
	Where isn't it illegal?

		BIGGEST NOSE
	Japan, of course.  Couple of places in
	Europe.  You'd almost certainly find it
	somewhere in Paris.  Rome.  Amsterdam.

		LESS BIGGEST NOSE
	Maybe London.

		LEAST BIGGEST NOSE
	But not at Harrod's.  Small, exclusive
	shops.  This bouquet was hand-engineered
	to someone's specifications.

		STARLING
	Is there any way of knowing which shops?

		BIGGEST NOSE
	Of course.  We'll give you a list.
	It'll be short.

The Biggest Nose can't resist taking one last savoring sniff
before returning the letter to the plastic bag.

EXT. FLORENCE - DAY

Vespas, Fiats and Innocenti speed around a traffic circle.
Pedestrians move along the boulevard.  We follow one man who
seems vaguely familiar - we glimpsed him briefly several days
ago walking past Fell's residence just before we went in, and
once before that, if we recall, polishing the floor in the
Palazzo Vecchio.

Right now, though, we're more interested in Pazzi who joins
the frame coming toward us, and we follow him instead, to and
up the steps of the Questura building.

INT. QUESTURA - DAY

A black and white step-framed image of Dr. Fell entering a
small perfume shop.  It plays on a monitor sitting atop two
VCR decks, one on Play, the other Record, the operator, a
young agent, smoking as he writes out a label.

Pazzi hangs his coat on a rack, crosses through the large
room, and sits at his desk which happens to be right next to
the VCR, which he pays no attention to.  At the next desk,
Ricci sits working on a crossword puzzle.

		PAZZI
	I need opera tickets.

		RICCI
		(without looking up)
	Don't think I have any on me.

		PAZZI
	It's sold out, whatever it's called.

A couple of Pazzi's colleagues, ones who are now working on
the Il Mostro case instead of him, surrounded by
photographs and clippings on the crimes, exchange a look.

		DETECTIVE
	It's the pretty young wife with the
	ever-open beak who needs opera tickets.

Pazzi glances over at them, not sure he heard right.  One
sneaks a glance at the other.  It's all they can do to keep
from laughing.  The tape of the customers coming and going
at the perfume store contines, but Pazzi doesn't notice.

		PAZZI
	Botticelli.

		DETECTIVE
	What?

		PAZZI
	He arranges his victims like that
	Botticelli painting.  You hadn't noticed?

As Pazzi glances away from them, he catches a glimpse of the
monitor, of Fell coming into the perfume shop again.  He gets
up and the Il Mostro detectives, thinking he's coming for
them, decide to go out for coffee.

		PAZZI
	Back that up.

		YOUNG AGENT
	What?  I can't back it up.  I'm making a
	copy.  I'm recording.

The black and white images of customers, most of them women,
continue, until Pazzi hits the stop button and spins the jog.
The young agent groans, but not too loud; Pazzi far outranks
him.  The image reverses.  Pazzi freezes it on one of the
step frames that shows Dr. Fell.

		PAZZI
	What is this?

		YOUNG AGENT
	Security camera from a perfume shop on
	Villa Della Scula.  FBI through Interpol
	requested a copy.

		PAZZI
	Why?

		YOUNG AGENT
	They didn't say.

		PAZZI
	They didn't say?

		YOUNG AGENT
	It was actually kind of weird.  Like
	they were making a point of not saying.

Pazzi unpauses it.  Watches Fell approach the counter and
then wait, it seems, for a long time as the perfumer mixes up
some kind of concoction.  Money exchanges hands and Fell,
with his purchase, leaves.

INT. PAZZI'S APARTMENT - STUDY - NIGHT

As a search engine works, Pazzi glances down at copies of
Fell's state work permit and Permesso di Soggiorno resting
next to the computer.  The video cassette is there, too.
And the over-night mailer.

The FBI's consumer home page appears on the screen.  Pazzi
selects the 10 Most Wanted button, and in a moment, the list
- with pictures - is displayed.

The World Trade Center bombing mastermind is #1.  Beneath
him, nine other, lesser bombers and murderers, none of whom
look anything like Fell.

He shifts back to the main page.  Selects Archives.  The
50 Most Wanted list appears - bank robbers and killers and
arsonists, all with photos or police sketches, all but one
man.  He scrolls down, stops.  Dr. Fell - Hannibal Lecter -
"Hannibal the Cannibal" - is looking right at him.

		ALLEGRA
	Rinaldo.

He doesn't seem to hear her as he begins reading the text
under Lecter's digitally-enhanced picture.

		ALLEGRA
	Rinaldo.

He glances up finally.  His young wife - who is indeed pretty
- stands in the doorway of the study.

		PAZZI
	I'm sorry.

		ALLEGRA
	Are we going to the Teatro Michahelles?

		PAZZI
	Yes.

		ALLEGRA
	You got tickets.

		PAZZI
	No.  But I will.  In fact, I was just
	about to look here.
		(on the Internet)

		ALLEGRA
	Please not the third balcony.  I would
	like to see it.

		PAZZI
	Not in the balcony.  No matter what the
	cost.

Unconvinced the promise will hold, she leaves the room.

Pazzi opens his filofax to the F tab, finds a number written
under no heading, a code, enters it into his computer and in
a moment is taken to the FBI's private VICAP site - Violent
Criminal Apprehensopn Program.

He types in Lecter and scans the internal 302 reports that
are displayed, many of them prepared by Special Agent Clarice
Starling.

He returns to the server screen.  Begins a new search.
Hannibal Lecter.  Many of the same sites Starling found are
listed, the ones posted by nuts.

He scrolls down to the Refine Search panel.  Adds one word
to his Hannibal Lecter query.  Reward.  Hits Return.

Only one site includes the word in its page name.  Pazzi goes
to it.  No graphics other than the same picture the FBI site
showed.  No indication of whose site it is.

Dry text describes Lecter, reminds the reader he should be
regarded as armed and dangerous, and encourages informants to
call the provided FBI number with any information.

There is also a private number listed - European dialing
code, not U.S.  Oh, and one more small piece of information.
The reward.  $3,000,000.

INT. STARLING'S LECTEREUM - DAY

The place is looking more and more like a museum, the
bulletin and blackboards covered now with notes and newsprint
photos, including some of Il Mostro's young victims.

Paul Krendler makes his way through the right-angled
passageway leading into the darkened room.  The only light is
coming from a monitor showing Lecter's escape from Memphis,
as caught by high-angle security cameras.

He considers a display Starling has erected to Lecter's nine
known victims.  One is Mason Verger.  Another, a man attached
to a tool shop peg board with metal rods piercing his body as
in an illustration next to it of the medieval Wound Man.

He becomes intrigued by a sketch on a standing easel of
Starling, signed by Hannibal Lecter.  A piece of cloth has
been tacked at the neck and drapes down like a sari.  Is she
naked underneath it?  Krendler has to find out.  As he
carefully lifts the cloth -

		LECTER'S VOICE
	What is your worst memory of childhood?

He jumps, startled, sees Starling sitting in a corner, in the
shadows, next to the cassette deck.

		STARLING
	Can I help you, Mr. Krendler?

		KRENDLER
	Jesus.  What are you doing sitting there
	in the dark?

		STARLING
	Thinking.

She gets up.  Lets the tape of Lecter's voice continue.
Krendler works at slowing the pace of his heart, at regaining
most of his unpleasant hauteur.

		KRENDLER
	Some people in Justice are thinking,
	too.  They're thinking, what exactly is
	she doing about Lecter?

		STARLING
	Thinking.  About cannibalism.

		KRENDLER
	What's the point of that, are you
	catching a crook, or writing a book?

		STARLING
	Aren't you curious why he dines on his
	victims?

		KRENDLER
	Not particularly, no.

		STARLING
	To show his contempt for those who
	exasperate him, I think.

Which she wouldn't mind showing Krendler in similar fashion.

		STARLING
	Or, sometimes, to perform a public
	service.  In the case of the flautist,
	Benjamin Raspail -
		(shows him a picture)
	- he did it to improve the sound of the
	Baltimore Philharmonic Orchestra, serving
	the not-so-talented flute player's sweet-
	breads to the board with a nice Chateau
	d'Y quem at forty-six hundred dollars a
	bottle.  That meal began with green
	oysters from the Gironde, followed by the
	sweetbreads, a sorbet and then, you can
	read here in Town & Country:  A notable
	dark and glossy ragout, the constituents
	never determined, on saffron rice.  Its
	taste was darkly thrilling with great
	bass tones that only the vast and careful
	reduction of the fond can give.

Krendler is looking at her, not at the magazine.  Then -

		KRENDLER
	I always figured him for a queer.

		STARLING
	Now why would you say that, Paul?

		KRENDLER
	All this artsy-fartsy stuff.  Chamber
	music and tea-party food.  Not that I
	mean anything personal, if you've got a
	lot of sympathy for those people.

There wasn't a lot of spin on his words, but they carried an
inkling of implication which she doesn't misinterpret.  She
ignores it, though, and him, looks through her receipts.

		KRENDLER
	What I came here to impress upon you,
	Starling, is I'd better see cooperation.
	There are no little fiefdoms.  I want to
	be copied on every 302.  Work with me and
	your so-called career here might improve.
	If you don't, all I have to do is draw a
	line through your name rather than under
	it, and it's over.

He turns to leave.

		STARLING
	Paul?  What is it with you?  I told you
	to go home to your wife.  That was wrong?

		KRENDLER
	Don't flatter yourself, Starling.  Why
	would I hold that against you?  That was
	a long time ago, and besides, this town
	is full of cornpone country pussy.

He seems pleased he came up with the phrase so easily.

		KRENDLER
	That said, I wouldn't mind having a go
	with you now if you want to reconsider.

		STARLING
	In the gym, anytime.  No pads.

He smiles.  Leaves.  She sits down at her desk, listens
to his footsteps down the hall fade, glances at the tape of
Lecter's escape.

EXT. FLORENCE - DAY

A fistful of 1,000-lira coins makes a dull ching as Pazzi
shakes them in his hand like dice he's not sure he wants to
throw.  He's staring at a pay phone ten paces away.  No one's
using it.  It's his if he wants it; clearly he isn't sure.

He finally walks over to it.  Lifts the receiver.  Presses
in the sequence of numbers scribbled in pen on the back of
the hand that holds the change.

A series of long distance tones beeps like a tinny death
knell.  A tinny recorded voice tells him to deposit 9,000-
lira for the first three minutes.

He drops nine coins in the slot with a shaky hand.  The
call connects and another recorded voice tells him the number
he has dialed is no longer in service.

He hangs up, relieved.  Begins to walk away with his so-
called reputation intact.  The phone rings.  He looks back at
it.  It rings again.  He begins to walk toward it.  It rings
again.  He reaches for it, hesitates, picks it up, and hears
a voice - not recorded - American accent - a man.

		VOICE
	Yes?
		(Pazzi doesn't answer)
	Hel-lo?

		PAZZI
	I have information about Hannibal Lecter.

		VOICE
	Does it include where he is now?

		PAZZI
	Is the reward still in effect?

		VOICE
	Yes, it is.  Have you shared your infor-
	mation with the police, sir?

		PAZZI
	No.

		VOICE
	I'm required to encourage you to do so.

		PAZZI
	Uh-huh.  Is the reward payable under ...
	special circumstances?

		VOICE
	Do you mean a bounty?  It's against
	international convention and U.S. Law to
	offer a bounty for someone's death, sir.

		PAZZI
	I mean in the case of, say, someone
	who might not ordinarily be eligible to
	accept a reward.

		VOICE
	May I suggest you contact an attorney,
	sir, before taking any possible-illegal
	action?  There's one in Geneva who's
	excellent in these matters.
	May I recommend an attorney?  May I give
	you his toll-free number?

The voice enunciates the number clearly.  Pazzi writes it on
the back of his hand next to the other one, the pen shaking.

		VOICE
	Thank you for calling.

The call disconnects.  Pazzi takes a breath.  Crosses the
street to another pay phone.  Dials the toll-free number and
pockets the coins.  The call connects.  Another male voice.
This one with a dry, Swiss, lawyerly tone:

		VOICE 2
	Hello -

		PAZZI
	Yes.  I was just speaking with someone
	who suggested I -

		VOICE 2
	There is a one hundred thousand dollar
	advance.  To qualify for the advance, a
	fingerprint must be provided - in situ -
	on an object -
		(the voice is a recording)
	Once the print is positively identified,
	the balance of the money will be placed
	in escrow at Geneva Credit Suisse, and
	may be viewed at any time subject to 24-
	hour-prior-notification.  To repeat this
	message in French, press 2.  In Spanish,
	press 3.  In German, press 4.  In
	Japanese -

INT. CAFE RESTROOM - LATER - DAY

Pazzi scrubs at his hands like Lady Macbeth, trying to get
the stain of the phone numbers off his skin, the black ink
clouding the water pooling in the sink before going down
the drain.

INT. STARLING'S LECTEREUM - DAY

A security tape of mostly-Japanese customers entering and
exiting an exclusive Tokyo perfumery plays on Starling's VCR.
The mail room boy watches it as Starling speaks on the phone -

		STARLING
	Is it possible it went out with the
	regular mail?

		YOUNG AGENT'S VOICE
	No.  No, I over-nighted it.  I filled
	out the slip myself.

INT. QUESTURA - INTERCUT

It's the same young agent who copied the security tape -

		YOUNG AGENT
	This was the day after your request.
	I did it right away.  I don't understand
	what happened.  You should have it.

INT. STARLING'S LECTEREUM - CONTINUED

There are three other tapes, marked with the names of stores
in Paris, Rome and Amsterdam, stacked on top of the machine
that plays the Japanese perfumery.

		STARLING
	I don't.  Can you send me another one?

		YOUNG AGENT'S VOICE
	I'll have to make another one.

		STARLING
	I'd appreciate it.

She hangs up.  Geoffrey gestures to the monitor.

		GEOFFREY
	Nothing, huh?

		STARLING
	Nothing yet.  Still waiting on Florence
	and London.  London says they're sniffing
	around.  I don't know, is that British
	humor?

EXT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - DAY

Pazzi's clean finger presses a button on the intercom set
into the stone wall of the entry.  As he waits, he glances up
at the security camera, then down at the hammered-iron handle
on the door.  No way to get a print off that.

		DR. FELL'S VOICE
	Buongiorno.

		PAZZI
	Dr. Fell?  It's Inspector Pazzi.

		DR. FELL'S VOICE
	Yes, I can see.

A buzzer releases the lock and Pazzi pulls the door open.

INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - DAY

As Fell leads Pazzi across the main salon upstairs, past
furniture draped with sheets, the inspector's glance darts
from object to object he'd like to steal for prints - a
glass, a book, a vase, a pen.

		DR. FELL
	I should've encouraged you to bring
	someone along.  The cases, I'm afraid,
	are on the heavy side.

		PAZZI
	Maybe you could help me with them.

		DR. FELL
	Hmmmm.

		PAZZI
	Just down the stairs I mean.

They reach two big suitcases, closed.  Two typewritten sheets
of paper rest on a small table next to them.

		PAZZI
	Is that the inventory?

		DR. FELL
	Yes.

		PAZZI
	May I see it?

		DR. FELL
	Of course.

Pazzi waits for Fell to hand it to him.  Unfortunately, it's
just as close to him.  Once it's clear Fell has no intention
of picking it up, Pazzi does - carefully, but not too
carefully - and pretends to read it.

		DR. FELL
	You are a Pazzi of the Pazzi, I think.
		(Pazzi doesn't answer)
	Wasn't it at the Palazzo Vecchio your
	ancestor was hanged?  Francesco de'Pazzi?
	Thrown naked with a noose around his neck
	from the window?  Writhing alongside the
	archbishop against the cold stone wall?

Pazzi stares at Fell, who only pleasantly smiles back.

		DR. FELL
	I found a nice rendering of it here in
	the library the other day.  If you'd like
	perhaps I could sneak it out for you.

		PAZZI
	I'd think that might jeopardize your
	chances for permanent appointment to the
	curatorship.

		DR. FELL
	Only if you told.
		(Fell smiles again)
	Remind me.  What was his crime?

		PAZZI
	He was accused of killing Giuliano
	de'Medici.

		DR. FELL
	Unjustly?

		PAZZI
	No, I don't think so.

		DR. FELL
	Then he wasn't just accused.  He did it.
	He was guilty.

A knowing look from Fell makes Pazzi wonder if he somehow
knows he knows he's Lecter.

		DR. FELL
	I'd think that would make living in
	Florence with the name Pazzi
	uncomfortable, even 500 years later.

		PAZZI
	Not really.  In fact, I can't remember
	the last time - before today - someone
	brought it up.

		DR. FELL
	But people don't always tell you what
	they're thinking ...  They just see to it
	you don't advance.
		(then)
	I'm sorry, I too often say what I'm
	thinking.  I'll be right back to help
	you.

Fell leaves Pazzi alone in the room ...

		FELL'S VOICE
	Any developments in the Il Mostro case?

		PAZZI
	I believe my colleagues are checking
	suspects' homes to see if they have any
	Botticelli prints.

		FELL'S VOICE
	In their homes?  That would be rather
	obvious, wouldn't it?

		PAZZI
	Serial killers are obvious.  Their
	primary motivation is to be obvious, to
	be noticed.

		FELL'S VOICE
	But not caught.

In another room, Fell opens a drawer and takes out a pair of
leather gloves.

		PAZZI'S VOICE
	Yes, that too, I think.

		DR. FELL
	Not really.

		PAZZI'S VOICE
	Yes.

		FELL'S VOICE
	Hmmm.

In the salon, Pazzi peers closely at the handles of the
suitcases to see if he can tell which, if either, has the
better print.  It doesn't matter really; in a few moments
he'll get another, fresh one.

		FELL'S VOICE
	By the way, the room you're standing in was
	built in the 15th-century.

		PAZZI
	It's beautiful.

		FELL'S VOICE
	Yes.  Unfortunately, I think the heating
	system was installed just about the same
	time.

Fell reappears pulling on the gloves.  Elaborating a shiver,
he rubs them together.

		FELL
	All right, let's drag these things down.
	They're as heavy as bodies.

INT/EXT. PERFUMERY - DAY

From across the street, Pazzi watches Fell inside the small
shop browsing at the glass bottles that line the shelves, his
ungloved hands clasped behind his back like someone looking
at great art, his nose taking in the cacophony of scents.

The hands unclasp.  A finger reaches to a bottle - but
doesn't touch it - moving slowly back and forth an inch away
from the label as a reading aid.  The hands return then to
their clasped position behind the back.

EXT. CAFE - LATER

Fell, alone at a table, his hand grasping a wine glass
firmly, bringing it to his lips, and setting it back down.
Pazzi, watching from across the street, smiles ... until
Fell takes a last sip, touches a napkin to his lips, slides
the cloth across the glass in a single, mechanical motion,
gets up and leaves.

INT. JEWELRY STORE - DAY

Pazzi's hands peel tens of thousands of lira from his money
clip as a jeweler's hands rub a soft cloth at the blank face
of a silver ID bracelet.

		JEWELER
	What would you like engraved on it, sir?

		PAZZI
	Nothing.

		JEWELER
	May I apply an anti-tarnish coating?

		PAZZI
	No.

EXT. ROAD TO PRATO - DAY

Sollicciano, the dreaded Florentine jail.

INT. JAIL - WOMEN'S DIVISION - DAY

A young woman's eyes drift down from Pazzi's tie clasp, to
his wedding band, to his silver ID bracelet.  In a crowd on
the street, she could remove all three in an instant and he
wouldn't even notice they were gone until he got home.

		ROMULA
	What do you want?  Information?

		PAZZI
	What sort of information would you be
	willing to give me, Romula?  Names and
	descriptions of fifteen Gypsy pickpockets
	who never existed?  No, what I want is to
	get you out of here.  And to make your
	arrest record permanently disappear.  In
	exchange, all I want from you is the
	usual thing.  Only I want you to fail.

EXT. FELL'S RESIDENCE - DAY

Fell emerges from his residence with a cloth shopping bag.
As he walks away on the cobblestoned street, a Vespa - with
Pazzi driving and Romula holding him around the waist - races
past and disappears into the traffic.

EXT. VERA DAL 1926 - LATER

Pazzi and Romula, on the parked scooter, watch Fell inside
the exclusive food shop selecting figs and white truffles.

		PAZZI
	When you fumble for his wallet, he'll
	catch you by the wrist -

		ROMULA
	I've done this a few times, Inspector -

		PAZZI
	Not like this.  If there isn't a clean
	print on that bracelet -
		(on her wrist now)
	- it's back to Sollicciano.

		ROMULA
	If there's a problem and someone helps,
	don't hurt him.
	My friend doesn't know anything, and
	won't take anything, let him run off.

		PAZZI
	There won't be a problem.  The man can't
	afford a problem.  He'll want to get away
	from you more than you will from him.

Here he comes, out the door of the shop, the little bell
above it tinkling.  Pazzi waits a moment, then starts the
Vespa, puts it in gear.  As he blends in among cars racing
past Fell, the sound of a choir practicing - somewhere -
begins and carries over:

INT. CHURCH OF SAN CROCE - LATER

Tourists drop 200-lira pieces into coin boxes that trigger
light to be thrown across the great frescos of Christ.  The
clicking timers wind down after only a few moments and the
murals plunge back into incense-smoky darkness.

Pazzi, lurking in the vast cathedral by Galileo's grave,
points with his chin to a transept to the left of the main
altar.  There, Romula can see the kneeling shape of a lone
figure and the outline of his shopping bag.

Fell has brought along his art supplies and uses some now
to carefully make a charcoal rubbing of an inscription in the
stone.  To keep his hands clean, he wears a pair of thin
cotton gloves.

A bell sounds.  Midday closing.  Sextons coming out with
their keys to empty the coin boxes.  Tourists looking around
puzzled in the dark, not yet understanding they all have to
leave.  Pazzi watches Fell rise from his labors, carefully
place the charcoal rubbing in his shopping bag and pull the
gloves off.

		PAZZI
		(a whisper)
	Okay?

She nods, moves away to the entrance of the church.  The
crowd will force Fell to pass right by her here.  Troubled by
something, though - a feeling - she looks down.  Sees she's
standing on the tomb of Michelangelo.  Steps off and whispers
to the slab -

		ROMULA
	Sorry.

Fell is coming toward her in the dark, oblivious to what is
about to happen.  Someone reaches into a purse and fishes out
a 200-lira coin.

Romula begins to move toward the dark shape moving toward
her.  Her friend and protector, Gnocco, falls in a couple
steps behind her.  A hand drops the coin in a slot.

Just as Romula and her target are upon one another, a light
goes on illuminating a fresco of a bloodied Christ and Fell's
eyes, looking straight into hers and chilling her heart.  The
ticking of the coin box accompanies an awkward moment before
Romula manages -

		ROMULA
	Excuse me.

She continues past Fell, the bracelet - untouched - jangling
dully on her wrist.  Fell looks back over his shoulder at the
woman.  She looks back over hers for a second, and the light
goes out leaving him in silhouette.

Fell walks away out past the doors and into the blinding
sunlight.  Pazzi wanders around in the dark and finally finds
Romula at a font, scrubbing her hands in the holy water.

		ROMULA
	That's the Devil.

She takes the bracelet off and hands it to Pazzi.  He watches
water drip from it and his hands to the floor.

		PAZZI
	So I'll drive you back to jail then.

		ROMULA
	Yes.

She splashes holy water on her face.  Pazzi shakes his head
and glances away, watches absently as a sexton empties one of
the coin boxes, then notices Gnocco, standing in the shadows.

EXT. PIAZZA SANTO SPIRITO - NIGHT

The dark water of the Arno drifts slowly under a bridge.  On
the left bank, by the fountain, Gnocco and some other Gypsies
share a joint.  In between hits, Gnocco slices up an orange,
his eyes hazy but his hand quick with the blade, the juice of
the fruit dripping onto his fingers.

		GNOCCO
	Two million lire.

		PAZZI
	Fine.

		GNOCCO
	Give me the bracelet.

		PAZZI
	Wash your fuckin hands.

EXT. VIA SAN LEONARDO - NIGHT

Steep cobbled ill-lit street.  Gnocco leaning in a dark,
gated niche built into a high stone wall protecting villas
inside.  He finishes a joint, tosses it away.  Spits on the
bracelet and wipes it clean with the tail of his shirt.  As
he's about to put it on his wrist, his jacket vibrates.  With
his free hand he removes a cell phone from the pocket.

		PAZZI'S VOICE
	He's coming.

The call disconnects.  Gnocco slips the phone back into the
pocket, clasps the bracelet around his wrist and steps out of
the shadows.

Several people appear around the corner, all of them well-
dressed.  A show must have just let out.  Gnocco walks up the
narrow street toward the column of advancing bobbing heads,
keeping his eyes on one of them.  Fell.

Gnocco and the group are upon each other.  Stoned and
swimming against the current, the pickpocket angles toward
his mark, bumps into him, reaches inside the elegant coat,
feels the wrist with the bracelet seized in a terrific grip,
twists it free hardly breaking stride, and emerges from
the tail of the throng.

He veers into another dark niche and bends over slightly
to catch his breath.  In a moment, quick footsteps announce
Pazzi's arrival.

		GNOCCO
	I got it.  He grabbed me just right.
	Tried to hit me in the balls, but he
	missed.

He holds out the arm with the braclet for Pazzi to take it
off.  As the Inspector works carefully at the clasp, Gnocco
sucks in another deep breath of air.

		GNOCCO
	Jesus -

		PAZZI
	What - ?

Gnocco suddenly collapses to one knee, the bracelet pulling
from Pazzi's hands.  Blood begins to gush out of a neat tear
in his pants.

More confuses than in pain, Gnocco looks down at the blood
only to have it spray up into his face.  Trying to ignore the
blood - even as it sprays on him - Pazzi works to get the
bracelet off, and finally frees it.

Gnocco stares dumbly at himself in his praying position,
then tries to stop the flow of blood with his hand.  As he
collapses against the iron gate.  Pazzi sets the bracelet in
the box it came in, pockets it, then reaches into Gnocco's
bloody pocket and takes the phone.

		PAZZI
	Here, let me help you.

Gnocco looks up at Pazzi gratefully, feels his hand being
moved away from the wound and held, feels nothing pressed in
its place, feels his blood drainging out of his body, then
feels nothing.  He's dead.

Pazzi gets up.  Takes out a handkerchief.  Wrapped inside is
a used syringe.  He tosses it on the ground and walks away.

INT. VERGER'S CHAMBER - DAY

Verger, lying in the dark, watches a technician in a pool
of bright light in the sitting area using a cordless power
screwdriver to back out the screws that secure the bracelet
to the jeweler's stand.  Carefully, he lifts it out of the
velvet box and sets it on a china plate.

A few flecks of dried blood fall onto the porcelain.  More
dried blood encrusts the silver.  He dusts the bracelet with
Dragon's Blood powder, angles a hot lamp at it and
photographs the one - in situ - print.

He comes around the tripod then and lifts the print, tapes it
to a slide and compares it to Lecter's FBI print card under a
microscope.  The swirling lines come into sharp focus.

		TECHNICIAN
	Middle finger of the left hand.  Sixteen
	point match.

EXT. SARDINIA - DAY

On a mountain farm deep in central Sardinia, a young man
wheels an empty, battered metal gurney along the fence-line
of a large pen.

Inside the adjacent shed, another young man picks through a
pile of old clothes.  In a corner, a third young man shuffles
through a small handful of audio cassette tapes.

Carlo and his gurney arrive.  His brother Matteo has chosen
an ensemble of pants and shirt, and lays it out on the sheet.
Carlo's cell phone rings.  He flips it open.

		MASON'S VOICE
	Carlo?

		CARLO
	Mason?

		MASON'S VOICE
	Ciao, Bello.  Come stai?  You have all
	your shots?  There's a nasty winter flu
	going around.

		CARLO
	Am I coming to see you?

		MASON'S VOICE
	Soon, I think, but first I need you to
	pack off the boys.  Yes, I know, the day
	you never thought would arrive, has.
	Got a pencil?

Carlo grabs a pen and a scrap of paper from the trestle
table by the gurney, where his brother is now filling the
clothes with meat and acorns and entrails and bread.

		MASON'S VOICE
	You need to get certified cholera
	inoculations - well, not you - and Ace-
	promazine for sedation.  That's a-c-e-p-r-
	oh, the hell with it, you'll find it.
	Cordell will fax the Veterinary Service
	forms directly to Animal and Plant Health
	- but you need to get the veterinary
	affidavits from Sardinia.

As Carlo scribbles the shipping instructions, Piero decides
on a tape, drops it in and carries the boom box outside.

		MASON'S VOICE
	The airbus will await you in Cagliari.
	Count Fleet Airlines.  The crates can be
	no larger than four-by-six - it's as bad
	as carry-on rules.  An on-board inspector
	has to travel with them.  They'll be met
	at Baltimore-Washington Airport - not the
	Key West quarantine facility - by my
	people who will clear them through
	Customs.  Va bene?

		CARLO
	Got it.

		MASON'S VOICE
	How are they?

		CARLO
	They're really big, Mason.  About two
	hundred and seventy kilos.

		MASON'S VOICE
	Wow.

Someone starts screaming outside; a recorded male voice from
the boom box.  Matteo splashes some expensive cologne on the
stuffed clothes and wheels the gurney out.

		MASON'S VOICE
	Oh, I called at a good time.  I can
	hear that.  Would it be too much trouble
	to take the phone outside?

Carlo walks out to the pen with the phone.  Matteo is there,
lowering the gurney while Piero raises the volume on the boom
box.  The recorded screams echo out across the mountains - a
fitting overture for the dark shadows coming out of the
woods.

EXT. BANK - GENEVA - DAY

The unassuming facade of Geneva Credit Suisse.

INT. CREDIT SUISSE VAULT - DAY

A bank clerk and another man, both in business suits, work
their keys to open four deep lock boxes with brass plates.

INT. ADJACENT PRIVACY ROOM - DAY

Alone in this severe, scrubbed, very Swiss room, Pazzi can
hear the sound of wheels.  In a moment a cart with four large
metal deposit boxes is pushed in.

The clerk excuses himself.  The other man raises the lids of
the boxes revealing three hundred banded blocks of non-
sequential hundred dollar bills.

Pazzi watches the man tear the paper bands off ten of the
neat stacks and set the loose bills in a counting machine.
The numbers on the LCD display climb.

		MR. KONIE
	The full balance of the money is
	payable upon receipt of the doctor alive.
		(the same dry Swiss voice Pazzi
		 heard on the phone recording)
	Of course, you won't have to seize him
	yourself, but merely point him out to us.
	In fact, it's preferable to all concerned
	if that's the extent of your involvement
	from this point.

		PAZZI
	I prefer to stay involved.  To make sure
	things go right.

		MR. KONIE
	Professionals will see to that, sir.

		PAZZI
	I'm a professional.

The glowing LCD display stops at $100,000.

INT. FLORENCE PERFUMERY - DAY

Flushed with the feeling that one of the bundles of money
makes against his thigh, Pazzi enters the exlusive shop and
browses at the bottles of scents on the shelves.

		PERFUMER
	May I help you, sir?

		PAZZI
	Yes.  Yes, you may.

INT. PAZZI'S APARTMENT - EVENING

An aria can be heard as Allegra Pazzi, sitting at her
dressing table in her underclothes, uncaps a small unlabeled
bottle of perfume and carefully touches a drop to her wrist.

Across the bedroom, knotting a new tie that drapes against a
handmade linen shirt that still shows the fold-creases, Pazzi
watches as his wife lifts the wrist to her beautiful face,
smells the scent on it and smiles to herself.

Pazzi smiles, too, to himself, as he watches her place
another drop on the other wrist and two more just under her
diamond-studded ear lobes.

It's almost like watching sex.

INT. TEATRO MICHAHELLES - NIGHT

The aria fills the grand darkened interior of the theatre.
In a private box overlooking the stage, Pazzi sits with his
wife's hand in his - he in his new Sulka suit, she in her new
evening gown.  The scalped tickets for these seats must have
cost him a fortune, but then he can afford it now.

A whiteness down below, caught by the bounce of a stage
light, draws Pazzi's attention from the diva.  The bright
glow belongs to the starched French cuffs of a white dress
shirt poking out of dark sleeves, the hands intertwined, the
chin resting on them.

It's Dr. Fell, engrossed in the drama, lost in the harrowed
beauty of the prima donna's voice.  But then, the head come
around like an owl's, the eyes peering up to the private box.
Pazzi had a second of opportunity to look away but missed it,
and now their eyes meet.

Pazzi involuntarily squeezes his wife's hand.  The pressure
draws a loving look from her, but Pazzi's is still locked on
Fell's enigmatic little smile, much as he wishes it wasn't,
until a crescendo in the music - finally - draws Fell's
head and eyes back to the stage.  Applause.

EXT. TEATRO PICCOLOMINI - NIGHT

A crush of theatergoers maneuvers for cabs.

		DR. FELL
	Enjoy the performance, Commendatore?

Pazzi and his wife, waiting for a free cab, turn to see Fell
standing behind them.  He smiles pleasantly.

		PAZZI
	Very much.  Allegra, this is Dr. Fell,
	Curator of the Capponi Library.

		DR. FELL
	Curator protempore, Signora Pazzi.  I'm
	honored.

Pazzi's eyes follow Fell's hand as it reaches to and holds
his wife's, his wrist bowing slightly.  Allegra smiles at his
grace and the graceful tone of his voice.

		ALLEGRA
	Is that an American accent, doctor?

		DR. FELL
	Canadian, wrung through the eastern sea-
	board of America.

		ALLEGRA
	I've always wanted to visit.  New England
	especially.

		DR. FELL
	Umm.  It's nice.  I've enjoyed many
	excellent meals there.

Pazzi would very much enjoy leaving, and looks away hoping to
see a driver interested in his patronage.

		DR. FELL
	Did I notice you following the score,
	Signora?  Hardly anyone does it anymore.
	Would this interest you?

From a portfolio under his arm, he produces a hand-copied
score on parchment - c. 1688 - each page in a plastic sleeve.

		DR. FELL
	I've marked in overlay some of the
	differences from the modern score, which
	might amuse you.  Please take it.

		ALLEGRA
	Look at this, Rinaldo.

		PAZZI
	I can see it.

And both of their hands, Fell's and hers, on it.

		ALLEGRA
	I did have some trouble with the
	recitative at the beginning.

		DR. FELL
	Dante's first sonnet from La Vita Nuova.
	He saw Beatrice Portinari across a chapel
	and he loved her at that instant and for
	the rest of his life.  But then had a
	disturbing dream -

		ALLEGRA
		(reading from text)
	Joyous Love seemed to me, the while
	he held my heart in his hands, and in his
	arms, My lady lay asleep wrapped in a
	veil -

		DR. FELL
		(continuing from memory)
	He woke her then, and trembling and
	obedient, she ate that burning heart out
	of his hand.  Weeping, I saw him then
	depart from me.

		ALLEGRA
	He saw her eat his heart!
		(Fell likes that as much as
		 she does)
	Do you believe a man could become
	so obsessed with a woman from a single
	encounter?

		DR. FELL
	Could he daily feel a stab of hunger
	for her?  Find nourishment in the very
	sight of her?  I think so.  But would
	she see through the bars of his plight,
	and ache for him?

Allegra waits for the answer, but Fell doesn't have it; he
just looks away wistfully as his fingers slide away from the
plastic like snakes.

		ALLEGRA
	Thank you for this.

Fell's nod says, I'm your servant.  Pazzi pulls open the back
door of a cab.

		DR. FELL
	Commendatore.
		(as he shakes Pazzi's hand)
	A ...  lle ...  gra ...

It's all Pazzi can do to keep from arresting the man as he
watches Fell rape his wife with a kiss of her hand.  His head
stays down there longer than it should as he savors the aroma
emanating from her wrist.  Finally the head rises back up and
Pazzi all but shoves Allegra into the cab.  As Fell watches
after it driving away, a couple passes behind them.

		THEATERGOER
	Let's get something to eat.

		DR. FELL
		(to himself)
	Yes, quite.

The hand that held Allegra's when he kissed it comes up to
his face.  He takes in the residue of the scent.

INT. STARLING'S HOUSE - LATE NIGHT

Empty coffee cup and dinner debris on Starling's desk.
Sitting at her computer, she types in a code summoning the
FBI's private VICAP site.  Navigating deep into it with other
codes, she reaches a page with a query panel and types in -
"cookies."

The screen fills with long lines of text - words and numbers
and slashes and hyphens - the "fingerprints" left by everyone
who has accessed the site over the last year.

Most have addresses within the FBI itself and Justice
Department; the majority of the rest from Interpol and other
internationl police organizations.  The scrolling list goes
on forever.

She narrows her search to show only those who have visited
the VICAP Lecter files, then narrows it further to those who
have "knocked" more than twenty times in the last month.

Her own screen name - "cstarling" - appears on the new list
more than any other.  There are also several flagged hits by
"pkrendler."  She smiles at one name - "jcrawford."  He isn't
supposed to be accessing the VICAP files anymore, now that
he's retired, but just can't help himself.

The next heaviest user is a name she doesn't recognize.
Someone who calls him or herself, "pfrancesco."  She stares
long at the screen name and finally whispers to it -

		STARLING
	Could that be you, Doctor?

EXT. CEMETERY - FLORENCE - NIGHT

We slowly approach - from someone's moving point of view -
a pair of young lovers walking toward us under the trees.  As
they draw closer - oblivious to us, and our breath, and our
footsteps on the cobblestone path -

Pazzi enters his own POV.  Once past the lovers, he takes
out a pencil-thin Maglite and rakes its narrow beam across
names on the chipped-marble tombstones he passes, the light
settling eventually on someone called "Lorenzo Mametti."

He tosses a cheap bunch of wilting flowers onto the grave
and looks around for whoever it is he's supposed to be meet-
ing here.  A shadowy figure emerges almost soundlessly from
behind a crypt and Pazzi finds the face with his pen light.

		CARLO
	Please.

Pazzi snaps it off.  Carlo comes out into the open looking
like a grave digger in his work clothes, perches on a squat
headstone, and first offering one to Pazzi, who declines,
lights himself a cigarette.

		CARLO
	I want him in the open street with not
	a lot of people around.

		PAZZI
	How will you take him down?

		CARLO
	That's my business.

		PAZZI
	It's my business too.

		CARLO
	You're a cop, aren't you.

		PAZZI
	I asked you a question.

		CARLO
	Yeah, you're a cop, all right.  I'll stun
	him with a beanbag gun, net him, give him
	a shot.

		PAZZI
	He has to lecture tomorrow night.  It
	won't be strange if I attend; he actually
	thinks I'm interested.  Can you do it
	that soon?

		CARLO
	Will you walk with him or are you afraid
	of him?

		PAZZI
	I'll do what I'm paid to do and so will
	you, only I'll be better paid for it.

Carlo removes his hat and bows his head as if to pray.
Someone is walking on a path intersecting theirs down by the
mausoleums.  The figure disappears behind the stone walls.

		PAZZI
	I want him out of Tuscany fast.

		CARLO
	Believe me, he'll be gone from the face
	of the earth fast.  Feet first.

INT. STARLING'S LECTEREUM - DAY

Starling glances from an international number jotted down on
her blotter to the phone on which she's dialing it.  A paused
time-coded frame of Lecter at the Florence perfumery, taking
in a scent on his hand, glows on her television as she
listens to a European ring.

INT. QUESTURA - SAME TIME - EVENING

Pictures of Il Mostro's victims stare at the detective who
picks up the ringing phone.

		DETECTIVE
	Questura.  Pandolfini.

		STARLING'S VOICE
	I'd like to speak with Chief Inspector
	Rinaldo Pazzi, please.  I'm Agent Clarice
	Starling with the American FBI.

The detective puts her on hold and shouts "Pazzi!" across
the room to where Pazzi was just grabbing his coat off the
rack to leave.  He holds the receiver up, then cradles it.
Pazzi groans.  Keeps his coat on.  Lifts the receiver of
another phone near him and pushes the blinking light.

		PAZZI
	Pazzi.

		STARLING'S VOICE
	Inspector Pazzi, it's Agent Starling with
	the FBI.  How do you do?

He was doing fine until this instant.

INTERCUT him here and Starling in her basement room -

		PAZZI
	Actually I was just leaving for the day,
	can I call you back tomorrow?

		STARLING
	This won't take long.  I'd appreciate it.

Pazzi groans again to himself as he glances to the clock.

		STARLING
	I wanted to thank you, first of all,
	for sending me the security tape from the
	perfume store.

The security tape?  Pazzi thought he buried that tape.

		STARLING
	When I say you, I mean your department.
	Agent Benetti.  Is he there?  Can I speak
	with him?

Pazzi is looking right at the young man pouring himself a cup
of water at the dispenser.

		PAZZI
	I'm sorry, he's gone home.

		STARLING
	That's all right.  I should tell you this
	rather than him anyway -

		PAZZI
	I'm late for an important lec - an
	important appointment -

		STARLING
	The person I'm looking for, Inspector -
	who was indeed shown on that tape - is
	Hannibal Lecter.

		PAZZI
	Who?

		STARLING
	Dr. Hannibal Lecter.  You've never heard
	of him?  He's quite well-known, at least
	in America.

		PAZZI
	I'm sorry, I'm not familiar -

		STARLING
	And the tape confirms that he is - or was
	recently - in Florence.

		PAZZI
	Really.

		STARLING
	He's a very dangerous man, Inspector
	Pazzi.  He's killed nine people - that we
	know of.

		PAZZI
	We know about dangerous men around here,
	too, unfortunately.

		STARLING
	Il Mostro.

		PAZZI
	Yes.
		(pause)
	You don't think -

		STARLING
	No, I don't.  The crimes of Il Mostro
	bear no resemblance to Lecter's in ... in
	style.

		PAZZI
	I really have to go, Miss -

		STARLING
	Starling.  Just another minute.  Are
	you sure you've never heard of him?

		PAZZI
	I haven't -

		STARLING
	Because I'm confused.  I'm confused
	by that because someone there has been
	accessing our private VICAP files on Dr.
	Lecter with some regularity, on your
	computer.

		PAZZI
	Everybody uses everybody's computer here.
	Maybe one of the detectives on Il Mostro
	was looking at profiles of killers to -

		STARLING
	I'm speaking about the computer at your
	home, sir.

Silence on both ends of the line.  A printout on her desk
shows the Internet trail.  Scribbled on a Post-It stuck to it
is "pfrancesco = rinaldo pazzi."

		STARLING
	You're trying to catch him yourself,
	aren't you, Inspector?  For the reward.
	I cannot warn you strongly enough against
	that.  He killed three policemen down in
	Memphis, while he was in custody, tearing
	the face off one of them - and he will
	kill you too if you -

He hangs up on her.

INT/EXT. PALAZZO VECCHIO - LATER - EVENING

As the sky darkens, floodlights across the piazza blink on
and wash across the rough stone walls of the Palazzo Vecchio.
As bats fly out from the jack-o'-lantern teeth of the
parapets the image suddenly goes to -

BLACK AND WHITE - a security monitor in the foyer, on which
a guard watches the creatures circling the building looking
for darker quarters.

A clunking sound draws our attention, but not his, to the
stairs, where we briefly glimpse the bottom half of a hand
truck - with something big strapped to it - as it's pulled
with some effort up the top steps.

UPPER HALL

The hand truck is wheeling toward us now, along the long
hall, and we see that it is a lectern - as big as a pulpit -
strapped to it.  We watch it coming, and the worker pushing
it - that same man again, the Palazzo's custodian - into -

THE SALON OF LILIES

- where the restorers are climbing down from their
scaffolding, closing up their cans of spirits and paints,
packing up to leave for the day.

Metal folding chairs have been arranged on the drop cloths
covering the floor in split rows of six.  Fell is at a small
table in back of them, setting up a slide projector.  He
turns it on and angle its bright white light onto a home
movie screen draping off the arm of its metal stand.

He sees the custodian coming in with the hand truck and
points out to him that he'd like the lectern up front, to one
side of the screen.

The screen.  It's too small.  The projector light spilling
way wide of its edges.  The drop cloth hanging from the
scaffolding behind it would work much better.

As the custodian unstraps and sets up the lectern, Fell takes
down the little screen, sets it aside, and stands before the
cloth, smoothing at its flickering folds.

The last of the restorers straggles out.  The custodian
unplugs and coils the long orange cord of the floor polisher,
hand-over-elbow.  Fell adds a brown extension cord to the
projector remote and snakes it along the ersatz aisle between
the chairs to the lectern.

He sets some books on the podium, places his hands on its
sides to test the comfort of its height - it's satisfactory -
and looks out over his invisible audience.

The custodian is finished straightening up.  Fell watches
him cross behind the back row of folding chairs, approach the
open doorway, and pauses for a few moments - too many moments -
to gaze up at the Botticelli before leaving.

EXT. PALAZZO VECCHIO - NIGHT

A great shadow rears up against the floodlit wall.  It
belongs to Pazzi, as he crossed the piazza, glancing once to
Carlo and his brother Matteo smoking next to a van before
disappearing into the palazzo's front entrance.

		FELL'S VOICE
	Avarice and hanging are linked in the
	medieval mind -

INT. SALON OF LILIES - NIGHT

The "dragons" of the Studiolo - and Sogliato - face us in the
folding chairs, listening to the lecture -

		FELL'S VOICE
	St. Jerome writes that Judas' very
	surname - Iscariot - means 'money,' or
	'price.'

A ringing phone interrupts.  The heads all turn.  Pazzi,
standing just inside the doors, gropes for his cell phone,
extracts it from his jacket pocket.

		FELL
	Ah, Commendatore Pazzi.

		STARLING'S VOICE
	It wasn't easy, but I got this number
	without telling them why, Inspector Paz -

He hangs up on her.  Switches off the phone's power.

		PAZZI
	Sorry.

		FELL
	Not al all.  Welcome.  Since you are
	closest to the lights, would you be so
	kind as to dim the lights?

Pazzi twists a dimmer on the wall and the lights come down.

		FELL
	Thank you.  You'll be interested in
	this, Commendatore, since there is a
	Pazzi already in Dante's Inferno.

An art slide appears on the drop cloth.  Fell improves the
focus with the remote.

		FELL
	Here is the earliest known depiction
	of the Crucifixion, carved on an ivory
	box in Gaul about A.D.  Four Hundred.  It
	includes the death by hanging of Judas,
	his face upturned to the branch that
	suspends him.
		(the slide changes)
	And here he is, on the doors of the
	Benevento Cathedral, hanging with his
	bowels falling out as St. Luke the
	physician described him in the Acts of
	the Apostles - still looking up.

The shadow of a bat flies across the image, but everyone, so
accustomed to the occurence, ignores it.

		FELL
	In this plate, from a fifteenth-
	century edition of the Inferno, Pier
	della Vigna's body hangs from a bleeding
	tree.  I will not belabor the obvious
	parallel with Judas Iscariot.

Pazzi, still in the back of the room, tries desperately to
separate the legs of a folding chair without having them
squeak.

		FELL
	But Dante Alighieri needed no drawn
	illustration.  It is his genius to make
	Pier della Vigna, now in Hell, speak in
	strained hisses and coughing sibilants as
	though he is hanging still.  Listen as he
	drags with the other damned his own dead
	body to hang upon the thorn tree:

Fell's normally composed face pains as he recites from memory
Dante's words of the agonal Pier della Vigna -

		FELL
	Come l'altre verrem per nostre spoglie,
	ma no pero ch'alcuna sen rivesta, che non
	e giusto aver cio ch'om si toglie.
	Qui le strascineremo, e per la mesta
	selva saranno i nostri corpi appesi,
	ciascuno al prun de l'ombra sua molesta.

A single metallic squeak from the back of the room punctuates
the last word.

		FELL
	Avarice, hanging, self-destruction,
	with avarice counting as self-destruction
	as much as hanging.  And what does the
	anonymous Florentine suicide say in his
	torment at the end of the canto?
		(pained)
	Io fei gibetto a me de le mie case.
	I - I make my own house be my gallows.
		(pause)
	Thank you for your kind attention.

Now there are, gratefully, a lot of chair squeaks as the
scholars stand to applaud Fell and come around him to shake
his hand.  Pazzi has to step aside to keep from being knocked
over by Sogliato leaving.

The lights stay dimmed.  Pazzi makes his way to Fell and
waits, as an autograph-seeker waits, for the last of the fans
to shake the doctor's hand and step away.

		PAZZI
	I'm not a scholar, but I think you've
	got the job.  Can I buy you a celebratory
	drink?

		FELL
	How kind of you.  Yes, I'd like that.
	I'll just be a minute gathering my
	things.

As Fell takes his tomes from the lectern and carries them
back to the projector table, Pazzi switches the power back on
his cell phone.  Nothing happens.  He realizes he has pressed
the ring/vibrate, not the power button, powers it up now and
makes a call.

		PAZZI
	Allegra, cara, I'll be home just a
	little later than I said.  I'm taking Dr.
	Fell out for a drink.

INTERCUT Carlo, outside, watching the entry of the Palazzo.

		CARLO
	I can see the people coming out now.

Back in the Salon, Pazzi hangs up.  Fell gathers his slides.

		FELL
	Oh, I should've shown them this one.
	I can't imagine how I missed it.  This
	one will interest you.

He drops the slide in front of the projector bulb and the
image appears on the drop cloth:  a drawing of a man hanging
naked beneath the battlements of this palace, the Palazzo
Vecchio, from the exact same angle we saw on the security
monitor.

		FELL
	Can you make it out all right?

It's a little blurry but Fell works with the remote and the
illustration passes back and forth across the plane of focus.
Keeping the remote in one hand, he takes a rag from his
satchel with the other, and approaches Pazzi, his silhouette
against on the drop cloth looming large as he comes.

		FELL
	There's a name down here, can you see it?

Pazzi comes close to look.  The projector's focusing motor
purrs as Fell works it with the remote.  The lettering
sharpens:  Francesco Pazzi.  Cheerfully -

		FELL
	It's your ancestor, Commendatore.
	Hanging beneath these very windows.  On
	a related subject, I must confess to you
	I'm giving serious thought to eating
	your wife.

He pulls at the heavy drop cloth.  It comes down,
enveloping Pazzi.  Fell seizes him around the chest and
presses the ether-soaked rag over the canvas where Pazzi's
face must be - the image of his hanging ancestor splashed
across the wall under the scaffolding.

EXT. PALAZZO VECCHIO - NIGHT

At the back of the van, its doors open, Carlo unzips a black
vinyl guitar gig-bag.  Inside is his beanbag stun rifle.  He
sets it next to the case and leans past the side of the door
to check on his brother, Matteo, stationed across the piazza
at the far end of the palazzo.

From Matteo's position - if he were looking - he could
see that his brother Carlo would like him to pay attention.

Matteo is paying attention, only it's to a young couple in a
car parked in the shadows across the street, necking.

A rock hits Matteo's pant leg and he finally looks up to his
brother by the van, who is saying with the arm that threw the
rock, What's the matter with you?

Neither one of them pays any attention to the worker sitting
on the ledge of the fountain - the custodian from the Palazzo
Vecchio - who glances up from time to time from the tip of
his burning cigarette to the young lovers in the car.

INT. SALON OF LILIES - NIGHT

Pazzi's gun, his plastic handcuffs strips and his wallet sit
next to Fell's work permit and permesso di soggiorno on the
podium.

Fell himself is standing next to it, working the plug-end
of the long orange floor polisher cord into a hangman's noose
with the traditional thirteen wraps.  Finishing, he crosses
the room with it, the tail of the orange snake uncurling and
slithering after him.

		FELL
	If you tell me what I need to know,
	Commendatore, it would be convenient for
	me to leave without my meal.  I'll ask
	you questions and then we'll see.

Pazzi is cinched to the hand truck with the same canvas
straps used to secure the lecturn on its journey up to the
salon.  With his mouth taped, it's difficult for him to
express his gratitude.

		FELL
	Was it Mason Verger you sold me to?
	Blink twice for yes.  Yes.  Thank you.
	Are his men waiting outside?  Umm hmmm.
	And one of them smells like tainted boar
	sausage?  Was that a single blink?  Oh,
	now you're confused.  Try not to be
	confused or I may have to fillet Signora
	Pazzi after all.  Have you told anyone in
	the Questura about me?  No, I thought
	not.  Have you told A-lle-gra?  No.
	You're sure?  I believe you.

Fell comes around behind Pazzi to the back of the hand truck,
hooks the cord-noose around one of its handles and gently
tips it back.

		FELL
	Here we go.  Hold on.

Pazzi struggles against the straps.  He struggles to speak,
to beg, but all that comes past the tape over his mouth is a
purr.  Fell wheels him close to a balcony, fully uprights the
hand truck again, takes the noose from the handle, drapes it
delicately around Pazzi's neck and tightens the slack.

		FELL
	Your heart is palpitating.  I can see it.

Pazzi's heart is beating so hard the fabric of his jacket is
fluttering.

		FELL
	No.  That's not your heart.

Fell slips a hand under the taut lapel as if to extract
Pazzi's heart.  Instead he finds in there the cell phone.
It vibrates silently in Fell's hand.

		FELL
	Who could that be?  Should I answer it?

Why not.  Fell flips it open.

		FELL
		(brightly)
	Pronto.

		STARLING'S VOICE
	I've gone above you, Inspector.  I've
	spoken to your section chief.  Someday
	you'll thank me - or you won't - I
	don't care - you'll be alive.
		(silence)
	Inspector Pazzi?

		LECTER
	I'm afraid I have bad news, Clarice.

INT. STARLING'S LECTEREUM - SAME TIME

Dead silence except for a low rumble from the boiler room.
Starling at her desk, like a statue clutching a phone.
Finally -

		STARLING
	Is he dead?

		LECTER'S VOICE
	You got my note.  I hope you liked the
	hand cream.  I had it made especially for
	you.

		STARLING
	Is he dead, Dr. Lecter?

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Clarice, there's nothing I'd love
	more in the world than to chat with you.
	Unfortunately, you've caught me at an
	awkward moment.  Forgive me.

INT. SALON OF LILIES - CONTINUED

Lecter closes up the phone.  Switches off the power.  Returns
it to Pazzi's breast pocket.

		LECTER
	An old friend.

He glances off with the faintest hint of wistfulness.  The
wall behind the scaffolding is still displaying the slide of
the hanging Francesco Pazzi.  Fell looks back to his great-
great-great-great-great-cousin.

		LECTER
	What do you think?  Bowels in?  Or out,
	like Cousin Francesco?

Pazzi's eyes blink and blink and blink and blink in terror.

		LECTER
	Oh, now you are confused.  I'll decide
	for you, if you'll permit me.

Flash of a knife as it comes up Pazzi's front.  Another
swipe as it severs his attachment to the dolly.  One push and
the railing catches Pazzi at the waist.  He goes over it, the
orange cord trailing, the ground coming up in a rush, the
floor polisher yanked down and sliding across the floor,
gathering up the drop cloth and slamming against the railing.
Pazzi's neck snaps and his bowels, and phone, spill out.

EXT. PALAZZO VECCHIO - NIGHT

The lovers in the car break their embrace at the sound of the
phone clattering to the ground, and stare up into the face of
the palazzo custodian - Il Mostro - standing just outside the
windshield with a big knife in his hand.  He runs.

Carlo is running too, from the the van toward the palazzo,
yelling to his brother -

		CARLO
	Cover the back.  If he comes out just
	kill him, cut him.

Matteo hurries around back.  Carlo jumps the steps three at
a time to the front doors as the security guard comes out to
see the thing in color that he couldn't quite make out in
black and white on his monitor.

INT. SALON OF LILIES - NIGHT

The great doors of the salon stand ajar.  Carlo swings his
gun around them onto the projected illustration of the
hanging figure on the wall.

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

Matteo, knife out, stands before the back door of the
palazzo.  Breathing hard, he reaches slowly for the handle,
careful to position himself in a way that will allow the door
to act as his shield if it opens.  He grasps the handle and
pulls.  It's locked.  As the hand is letting go and coming
away, the door suddenly swings open hard into his face -

INT. SALON OF LILIES - NIGHT

Carlo hears the cry coming from the rear of the building.
He runs from the salon and down the back stairs, stumbling
down them, catching himself, reaching the back door that's
standing open.

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

He emerges from the doorway, leading with his gun, sees his
brother on the ground, covered in blood, hurries to him and
kneels.  Matteo's dead.

EXT. PIAZZA VECCHIO - NIGHT

A crowd is gathering, peering up at the spectacle that is
Rinaldo Pazzi swaying slowly back and forth against the stone
walls, lit up as if in a stadium under the floodlights.

A motorcycle comes toward the square on a narrow side street.
A figure steps out into the glare of its headlight.  The
cyclist slows to a stop.

		LECTER
	Young man, if I'm not at the Piazza
	Bellosquardo in ten minutes, my wife will
	kill me.

Lecter's gloved hand offers a 50,000-lira note.

		MOTORCYCLIST
	That's all you want?  A ride?

		LECTER
	That's all.

He hands the cyclist the bill and climbs on back, careful not
to touch the young man with his hands, lest he get the wrong
idea.  The Moto-Guzzi turns around and speeds off the way it
came, away from the piazza.

FADE TO BLACK

And out of the black materializes -

A BLACK AND WHITE image of Pazzi, small and stark in the
floodlights, swinging against the wall of the Palazzo
Vecchio.

INT. STARLING'S LECTEREUM - DAY

The event, captured on tape by the security camera across the
piazza, copied and sent by the Questura at her request, plays
on Starling's VCR setup.  As she watches it -

INT. VERGER'S CHAMBER - DAY

A copy of a copy of the tape - at the same point in the
action - plays for Verger.  Noticing something - some move-
ment in an upper corner of the frame - he reverse-searches
the tape with his remote to look at it again.

The movement belongs to a silhouette of a figure appearing
briefly on the balcony above the hanged Pazzi.  An arm of the
figure rises up and the hand waves - not down to Pazzi - but
across to the viewer.  Verger freezes the image and studies
it for a long moment in silence.  Eventually -

		MASON
	Cordell?  To you:  Does that look like
	a wave goodbye? ... Or hello?

INT. STARLING'S LECTEREUM - CONTINUED

Starling's copy of the tape frozen on the same frame.  She,
too, reverse-searches it and plays the wave again, no doubt
wondering the same thing Verger is.  Her phone rings.

		STARLING
	Starling.

		CRAWFORD'S VOICE
	Don't tell anyone but I'm sitting here
	watching an mpeg off the VICAP of a man
	swinging from a rope against a building
	in Florence.

		STARLING
	It's an electrical cord, Mr. Crawford,
	and you know you shouldn't be doing that.

INT. CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - MIAMI - SAME TIME

The same image glows on Crawford's computer screen.

		CRAWFORD
	Ummm, I can't see it that clearly but I
	can see his intestines hanging out.  And
	the figure on the balcony waving.

INT. STARLING'S LECTEREUM - CONTINUED

She unpauses her better quaility tape and the wave plays
again.

		STARLING
	If I was concerned -

		CRAWFORD'S VOICE
	You should be concerned.  Where do you
	think he'll go, now that you've disturbed
	his comfortable life?

		STARLING
	Not here.  Somewhere else he can live
	without denying himself the things he
	likes.

		CRAWFORD'S VOICE
	What does he like?

		STARLING
	You know.  Good food, good wine, music,
	books -

		CRAWFORD'S VOICE
	He likes you, Starling.  Seven years
	gone, not a trace, and he writes to you.
	You know what that means.

		STARLING
	No.

		CRAWFORD'S VOICE
	The stalker who says he likes you is
	far more dangerous than the one who says
	he wants to kill you.

EXT. VERGER'S FARM - DAY

The holes in the side of the livestock truck aren't big
enough to see what's inside.  The guard at the main entrance,
clipboard in hand, jumps back when something bangs up against
the metal wall of the trailer.  To the driver -

		GUARD
	You have to turn around - or back down
	- go half a mile up the frontage road to
	a gate - then up the service road.

As the truck begins to turn around, the guard waves
Cordell's car through.  Barney is in the passenger seat.

INT. VERGER'S CHAMBER - DAY

A man with glasses and a dry comb-over sits staring into the
glare of Verger's bed-lights.

		DR. DOEMLING
	I don't understand what you think he can
	offer.

		MASON
	A second opinion, doctor.  I know that's
	anathema to those in your profession, but
	it's not in mine.

Cordell leads Barney into the darkened chamber.

		MASON
	Speak of the devil.  Welcome, Barney.
	I'm Mason.  This is Dr. Doemling, who is
	head of the Baylor University Psychology
	Department.  He holds the Verger Chair.

		BARNEY
	How do you do?

Barney sets down a pink dessert box tied with stirng and
offers his hand to the doctor, receiving back for his trouble
a limp shake.  Peering into the lights he can see beyond them
only the vague shape of the figure in the hospital bed.

		MASON
	I see you've brought dessert.  That's
	very kind.  Cookies?  I might be able to
	get a cookie down somehow.  So Barney -
	is Barney your real name by the way?

		BARNEY
	Yes.

		MASON
	First of all, Barney, thank you for the
	wealth of wonderful items you've provided
	me from your personal Lecter treasure
	trove.  I've enjoyed them immensely.

		BARNEY
	Thank you for outbidding everyone.  Is
	Mason your real name?

		MASON
	Oh, yes.  Please sit.  Yes, beside Dr.
	Doemling is fine.  That's his real name,
	too.  There.  Good.  Now -

		DR. DOEMLING
	Barney, if I could ask, what exactly is
	your professional training?

		BARNEY
	I have an LPN.

		DR. DOEMLING
	You're a licensed practical nurse.

		BARNEY
	Yes.

		DR. DOEMLING
	Good for you.

		MASON
	Okay, everybody has everybody's real
	names and credentials now.  Except mine.
	Mine are, well, I'm just very wealthy,
	aren't I?  Okay.  Let's begin.

		DR. DOEMLING
	Barney, while you were working at the
	state hospital - I assume not as licensed
	practical nurse -

		BARNEY
	- as an orderly -

		DR. DOEMLING
	- as an orderly - you observed Clarice
	Starling and Hannibal Lecter interacting.

		BARNEY
	Interacting?

		DR. DOEMLING
	Talking to one another.

		BARNEY
	Yes.  Yes, it seemed to me they -

		DR. DOEMLING
	I can see you're eager to justify your
	consulting fee, but why don't we start
	with what you saw, not what you thought
	about what you saw.

		MASON
	Barney's smart enough to give us his
	opinion.  Barney, give us your opinion of
	what you saw.  What was it between them?

		BARNEY
	Most of the time Dr. Lecter didn't
	respond at all to visitors, he would
	just, for instance, open his eyes long
	enough to insult some academic who was
	there to look him over.
		(he looks Doemling over)
	With Starling, though, he answered her
	questions.  She interested him.  She
	intrigued him.  He thought she was
	charming and amusing.

		MASON
	Uh-huh.

		DR. DOEMLING
	You can judge what Hannibal Lecter found
	amusing?  Just how do you go about that,
	Nurse Barney?

		BARNEY
	By listening to him laugh, Dr. Dumling.

		DR. DOEMLING
	Doemling.

		BARNEY
	Sometimes Dr. Lecter and I would talk
	when things got quiet enough.  About the
	science courses I was taking and -

		DR. DOEMLING
	Some kind of mail-order courses in
	psychology?

		BARNEY
	No, sir.  I don't consider psychology a
	science, and neither did Dr. Lecter.

A small laugh from behind the lights.

		MASON
	And about her?  You talked about her?

		BARNEY
	I can just repeat what he told me about
	her.

		MASON
	That's why you're here.

		BARNEY
	He said things like how she was
	charming the way a cub is charming a
	small cub that will grow up to be a big
	cat - one that you can't play with later.
	She had a cub-like earnestness, he said.

		MASON
	Does she still in your opinion?  Have
	you seen her lately?

		BARNEY
	Yes, I have, and no, I don't think she
	does.  That quality in her, I think, is
	gone.

		MASON
	So Clarice Starling and Hannibal Lecter
	became ... friendly.

		BARNEY
	Inside a kind of formal structure, yes.

		MASON
	And he was fond of her.

		BARNEY
	Yes.

		MASON
	Thank you, Barney.  Thank you very
	much for your candor.  And keep all those
	wonderful products coming.  Cordell, see
	that Barney receives a real nice tip.

		DR. DOEMLING
	Goodbye, Nurse Barney.

		BARNEY
		(picking up the pink box)
	Mr. Verger -

		MASON
	The cookies.  Yes, let's have one.
		BARNEY
	It's not cookies.

He opens the box.  It's the Lecter mask.  Verger stares long
at it in reverential silence.  Finally -

		MASON
	How much?

		BARNEY
	Two hundred and fifty.  Thousand.

		MASON
	Cut Barney a check, Cordell.  Now.

Barney sets the mask on the bed and leaves.  Verger hooks a
talon-like finger over the wire and holds on.  Eventually he
comes out of his reverie -

		MASON
	So what do you think, doctor?  Does
	Lecter want to fuck her or kill her or
	eat her or what?

		DR. DOEMLING
	Probably all three, though I wouldn't
	want to predict in what order.

		MASON
	Hmmm.

		DR. DOEMLING
	No matter how Barney might want to
	romanticize it and try to make it Beauty
	and the Beast, Lecter's object - as you
	know from personal experience - is always
	degradation and suffering.  He comes in
	the guise of a mentor - as he did to you -
	and her - but it's distress that excites
	him.  To draw him - if that's the goal -
	she needs to be distressed.  If you want
	to make her attractive to him, let him
	see her distressed.  Let the damage he
	sees suggest the damage he could do.

		MASON
	When the fox hears a rabbit scream, he
	comes running ... but not to help.

EXT. VIRGINIA STATE PARK - DAY

A rabbit on a path, staring, listening, hears the footsteps
before we do and bounds away back into the woods.  Starling
appears a moment later, running on the same dirt path through
the trees, two or three miles into her five-mile run, working
up a sweat.

She hears footsteps before we do, too, and, like a rabbit,
bounds off the path.  Stopping just off it, she bends to
catch her breath, then picks up a dead branch.

The footsteps and the panting close in.  She lets the first
running man go past, but grabs the second one, throws him to
the ground, straddles him and pushes the branch against his
throat.  At once calm but firm -

		STARLING
	Don't say a word.

She needn't warn him; the young man seems too terrified to
speak.  Starling reaches behind his track suit, pulls out his
.38, and keeping the branch tight against his neck, lets the
other runner, who's running back now, know that she has his
friend's gun.  To him, again very calmly, as he nears -

		STARLING
	Stop.  Catch your breath.  Take your
	gun out very slowly with your left hand,
	set it on the ground and take five steps
	away from it.

The second young man does exactly as he's told.  Then -

		STARLING
	All right.  Who are you?

		2ND RUNNER
	We work for Jack Crawford.  We're
	supposed to keep an eye on you.  To keep
	you safe from - you know - Hannibal the
	Cannibal.

		STARLING
	Show me.

He knows what that means, and shows her identification from
Crawford's private security firm.

She gets up off the other one then, tosses the branch away
and walks over to the gun resting on the fallen leaves.  She
picks it up.

		STARLING
	Okay, here it is:  I don't need you
	looking after me.  I'm not in any danger.
	If you talk to him before I do tell him
	that.

		2ND RUNNER
	Yes, ma'am.

She returns the guns to each of them, first giving the one on
the ground a hand up.

		STARLING
	Sorry if I hurt you.

She leaves them, continues on her run.  As the one she threw
to the ground dusts himself off, the perspective changes to -

A VIEW THROUGH BINOCULARS

- of the two private security men off in the distance.

They blur then as the binoculars are shifted.  Trees, too,
blur across the lenses.  The view overtakes Starling, returns
and follows her, focusing as she runs through the trees,
staying on her until she disappears down a sloping path.

Lecter lowers the small, expensive field glasses.  Returns
them to their case slung over his shoulder.  Crosses the dirt
parking area to her mustang.  Peers inside and sees no
blinking red light on the dash.

He takes out a slim jim.  Slips it down and across the
driver's side jamb, tripping the lock.  He opens the door
and sits in the bucket seat a long moment before delicately
touching the ten and two o'clock points on the leather-clad
steering wheel where her hands rest most often.  He leans
closer to smell her on the leather.  Then licks it.

INT. KRENDLER'S DC TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

Krendler, just back from a jog himself, sweaty T-shirt and
headband, sits with Cordell and reads a postcard from London
sheathed in plastic, written in Lecter's distinctive copper-
plate.  Finishing, he looks up at a speaker phone -

		KRENDLER
	I'm not sure I understand.

		MASON'S VOICE
	You don't have to understand, Paul.  All
	you have to understand is what it's worth
	to you.

		KRENDLER
	No, I don't understand why she didn't
	turn this over; she's such a - straight
	arrow.

INT. VERGER'S CHAMBER - SAME TIME

Looking at his speakerphone, Verger sighs.  Maybe he's making
a terrible mistake.  Maybe Krendler is just too stupid to be
of any real use to him.  As if to a child -

		MASON
	She didn't turn it over because she
	didn't receive it.  She didn't receive
	it because it was never delivered to her.
	It was delivered to me for a nice
	gratuity to a not-so-nice mail room boy.

		KRENDLER'S VOICE
	Oh.  Ohhh.

The realization, and Krendler's look of admiration that
follows it, only make Verger worry more about his stupidity.

		MASON
	So what do you think?

		KRENDLER'S VOICE
	I think you'd have been better off if
	you hadn't gotten her out of trouble in
	the first place.

		MASON
	Woulda, shoulda, coulda - I meant, what
	do you think of the money?

INT. KRENDLER'S TOWNHOUSE - CONTINUED

		KRENDLER
	Five.

		MASON'S VOICE
	Well, let's just toss it off like,
	"five."  Let's say it with the respect it
	deserves.

		KRENDLER
	Five hundred thousand dollars.

		MASON'S VOICE
	That's better, but not much, but don't
	say it again.  Will it work?

Krendler considers the forged postcard again.  Eventually -

		KRENDLER
	It won't be pretty.

		MASON'S VOICE
	What ever is?

INT. ASSISTANT DIRECTOR NOONAN'S OFFICE - DAY

Starling sits next to her boss, Pearsall, and across from
his boss, Noonan.  Krendler, too, is there, and a federal
marshal standing in a corner of the quiet room.

		NOONAN
	Would you identify yourself, please,
	for the record.

		STARLING
	Special Agent Clarice Starling.  Is
	there a record, Director Noonan?  I'd
	like there to be since I have no idea
	what this is about.  Do you mind if I
	run a tape?

She takes a little Nagra from her purse, sets it on the desk
and turns it on.

		NOONAN
	Tell her the charges.

		KRENDLER
	Withholding evidence and obstruction of
	justice.

The marshal sets the postcard with the familiar-looking
copperplate in front of Starling.  Her eyes move quickly back
and forth across the lines of words.  She doesn't touch it.

		NOONAN
	Like to comment?  On tape?

		STARLING
	Yes, I would.  I've never seen this
	before in my life.

		KRENDLER
	How do you account for it being found in
	your - office - your - basement?

		STARLING
	Found by who?

		KRENDLER
	By me.

		STARLING
	I don't think you want me to answer that,
	Mr. Krendler.  Let me ask you this:  What
	possible reason might I have to withhold
	it?

		KRENDLER
	Perhaps because of the nature of its
	content.  It reads like a - like a love
	letter to me.

As Krendler comes over and hovers over her shoulder, it's all
she can do to keep herself from slugging him.

		STARLING
	Has it been tested for prints?

		NOONAN
	No prints on it.  None on the last one.

		STARLING
	Handwriting (analysis) - ?

		KRENDLER
		(before Noonan can answer)
	Did you ever think, Clarice, why the
	Philistines don't understand you?  It's
	because you're the answer to Samson's
	riddle:  You are the honey in the lion.
	Sounds like him to me.

		STARLING
	Do you mean, Mr. Krendler, like a
	homosexual?

		KRENDLER
	Like a nut with a crush.

Noonan, not a bad guy, chooses his next words carefully -

		NOONAN
	Clarice, I'm placing you on
	administrative leave until Document
	Analysis tells me, unequivocally, a
	mistake's been made.  In the meantime
	you'll remain eligible for insurance and
	medical benefits.
	Please surrender your weapons and
	identification to Agent Pearsall.

Looking steadily at Krendler, Starling takes out her .45,
drops the clip into her hand, shucks the round out of the
pistol's chamber and sets it all down on the desk.  As she
places her ID next to it, Pearsall asks her sadly -

		PEARSALL
	Backup sidearm?

		STARLING
	Locked in my car.

		PEARSALL
	Other tactical equipment?

		STARLING
	Helmet and vest.

		NOONAN
		(to the marshal)
	You'll retrieve those when you escort
	Miss Starling from the building.

The marshal comes toward her.

		STARLING
	I want to say something.  I think I'm
	entitled.

		NOONAN
	Go ahead.

		STARLING
	I think Mr. Mason Verger is trying to
	capture Dr. Lecter himself for the
	purpose of personal revenge.  I think Mr.
	Krendler is in collusion with him and
	wants the FBI'S effort against Dr. Lecter
	to work for Mr. Verger.  I think Mr.
	Krendler is being paid to do this.

		KRENDLER
	It's a good thing you're not sworn here
	today.

		STARLING
	Swear me!  You swear, too!

		NOONAN
	Starling.  If the evidence is lacking,
	you'll be entitled to full reinstatement
	without prejudice - if you don't do - or
	say - something in the meantime that
	would make that impossible.

Starling just keeps staring at Krendler as she gathers her
Nagra and purse.  Finally, she glances over to her boss and
friend, Pearsall, who mouths -

		PEARSALL
	Sorry, Starling.

She lets the marshal lead her from the room.

INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY

Lecter, clutching a shopping bag, stands in the electronics
department before a wall of television sets all tuned to the
same channel, local news, a talking head with an inset of a
photograph of Starling.

		TALKING HEAD
	- relieved of field duty pending an
	internal investigation into the charges.
	Starling, a 7-year vetern on the Bureau
	began her career with an assignment to
	interview lethal madman, Hannibal Lecter -

		LECTER
	- Doctor -

		SALES CLERK
	May I help you, sir?

Lecter glances to the young sales clerk, a teenager with a
name tag.

		LECTER
	I was looking for some good steak knives,
	Toby, but I'm afraid I got distracted.

		SALES CLERK
	Kitchenware, right over there.

		LECTER
	Thank you.

The clerk walks away.  Lecter glances back to the TVs to see
that a black and white inset photograph of himself has been
added to the one of Starling.

		TALKING HEAD
	- receiving information from him which
	led to killer Jame Gumb and the release
	of his hostage Catherine Martin, daughter
	of the former U.S. Senator from
	Tennessee.

Lecter glances over to "Toby," who is busy pointing out to
a customer the features of various VCRs, his back to the
screens.  Footage of Krendler appears on them -

		KRENDLER ON TV
	FBI and the Justice Department are
	looking carefully into the charges, and
	yes, they are serious.  But I want to say
	this:  Starling's one of the best agents
	we have and having known her for a number
	of years now, I would be very surprised
	if the accusations turn out to be true.
	It's much too soon to condemn her.

Lecter smiles at Krendler's image.  He always smiles upon
finding himself in the presence of bad liars.

INT. STARLING'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Silent.  Still.  Then the lock turning in the front door.
It opens.  Starling, looking weary, carries in a cardboard
box, her things from her desk at "the office," no bigger than
Brigham's was.  As she passes us -

Later.  Laundry room.  Absently dropping clothes in a
washing machine filling with water, she then slides down to
the floor in despair, her back against the warm enamel -

Later.  Living room.  Pouring herself a neat Jack Daniels
to the accompaniment of the first message on her answering
machine, the voice sounding almost as tired as her -

		CRAWFORD'S VOICE
	Hey.  It's Jack.  How you doing?  I'm
	sure it's not as bad as it looks.  I feel
	it's my fault.  I got you into all this.
	Call me.  Make me feel better.

She carries the drink to the sofa, lies down, hasn't bothered
to turn off any lights.  Drinks as the second message plays -

		BARNEY'S VOICE
	It's Barney.  Remember me?  I got your
	number from, uh - I mean I know it's un-
	listed, but, I, ummm, I'm pretty good on
	the computer ...
	- save a few bucks on my phone bill,
	don't arrest me -
		(she smiles; closes her eyes)
	I'm sorry, uh - about what happened to
	you.  I feel bad.  For you.  I was, umm,
	wondering if you might want to call me if
	you get the chance - 555-7026.
		(in a firmer tone:)
	I think she's nice.  She's always been
	nice to me.  Polite.  Don't you think?

Tight on Starling's cassette deck - the spindles turning
the tape inside.  Stack of other tapes she got from Barney
lying next to it.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Do you know what a roller pigeon is,
	Barney?

Starling is asleep on the sofa now.  Still in her clothes.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	They climb high and fast, then roll
	over and fall just as fast toward the
	earth.  There are shallow rollers and
	deep rollers.  You can't breed two deep
	rollers, or their young will roll all the
	down, hit, and die.  Officer Starling is
	a deep roller, Barney.  We should hope
	one of her parents was not.

The tape reaches its leader an stops.  The green power
light stays on.  Then it goes off, then comes back on again:
an electrical interruption that is quickly reestablished.

INT. BASEMENT - STARLING'S HOUSE - SAME TIME

A basement window slightly open.  A piece of insulated wire
clipped to the alarm contacts.  A shadow of a figure floating
away from it.

The figure moves toward the stairs, passing a rusty bicycle
hanging on the wall and some shooting trophies gathering dust
on a shelf, and begins up the stairs.

INT. STARLING'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

The microwave oven's glowing reset numbers "88:88" are
obsured a moment as the figure soundlessly passes.  Ice
tumbles from the refrigerator's ice-maker into the bin.

In the living room, Starling is still asleep, her empty
glass resting on a wood coffee table.

A digital desk clock blinks "00:00."  Tiny sounds echo in the
dark house - the hum of the furnace, the whistle of a pant
leg touching fabric on a chair, slick pages being turned ...
a sigh.

EXT. STARLING'S HOUSE - DAWN

The basement window, closed now, reflecting the glow of
sunrise.  Power lines against the red sky.  A pigeon sitting
on the wire, calling out once.

INT. STARLING'S HOUSE - DAWN

Starling wakes in the same position she fell asleep.  In
front of her is her empty glass.  Set down not on top of the
wood as she left it, but on a thick magazine.

She knows that's not right.  Sits up enough to see the
cover of the magazine.  Italian Vogue.  Edge of a Post-It
peeking out from the pages.  She uses the Post-It to turn
to the marked page.  A glossy Prada advertisement for
expensive - unsensible - shoes.

He's been in her house.  Right here as she slept.  She's up
fast, rushing to her bedroom.  The the closet.  Pulling down
from the top shelf the box containing Brigham's guns and ID.

She slams a clip into the .45.  As she's loading the little
.38, the phone rings, startling her.  She stares at it on the
night stand next to the alarm clock:  10:30 A.M.  It rings
again.  She slowly crosses toward it.  Another ring.  She
lifts the receiver.  Says nothing.  Hears nothing.  Until -

		RECORDED VOICE
	If you're not receiveing frequent flyer
	miles on your credit card, you're missing
	out on -

She hangs up.  Returns to loading the gun.  The cell phone
on her hip rings, and a bullet falls to the floor.  She pulls
the phone from its holster.  Answers it, again, by saying
nothing.  Only listens.  Hears a little static.  Connection
to another cell phone probably.  Then -

		LECTER'S VOICE
	The power on that battery is low,
	Clarice.  I would've changed it, but I
	didn't want to wake you.  You're going to
	have to use the other one.  In the
	charger.  Hopefully the light on it is
	green by now.

The charger is right in front of her on the dresser.  And the
light on it is green - fully charged.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	- because this is going to be a long
	call and I can't let you off because -
	even though you've been stripped of your
	duties, I know you won't abandon them,
	you'll try to put on a trace.  So we'll
	disconnect only long enough for you to
	exchange the battery in the phone for the
	one in the charger.  Shall we say - three
	seconds?  That should be enough.  You can
	change the clip on a .45 quicker than
	that.  So when I tell you to, disengage
	the dying battery.  That'll disconnect
	us.  I'll speed dial back.  If you've
	succeeded in your task in the allotted
	time - wonderful.  If not? Well maybe
	some other time.  Are you ready?

		STARLING
	Yes.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Go.

It looks like changing the clip in a gun - the low battery
falling away from the body of the phone into her hand, the
charged one slapped in its place in just over two seconds.
She hits the power button.  The LCD display lights up and
beeps.  The phone rings and she flips it open.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Very good.

		STARLING
	Thank you.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Get in your car.

She begins gathering the guns and holsters and ammo.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Oh, all right, bring the guns if you
	want.  But remember, if you get caught
	with a concealed, unlicensed firearm in
	the District of Columbia, the penalty
	is pretty stiff.

INT. STARLING'S MUSTANG - MOVING - DAY

She's in the far right lane of a highway.  Keeping just under
the speed limit.  The cell phone rests atop the open ashtray.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	The reason we're doing it like this,
	Clarice, is because I'd like to see you
	as we speak.  With your eyes open.  No,
	it doesn't excite me.  Yes, it pleases
	me.  You have very shapely feet.
	Call it out.

		STARLING
	Exit 14-A.  Three hundred yards - two
	hundred - one hundred - fifty -

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Take it.

She veers onto the ramp without a signal.  A van, several
lengths back, takes the exit, too.

INT. UNION STATION - DAY

Starling enters the huge, echoing interior of the station
with a crush of travelers and Christmas shoppers.  She has
the phone to her ear, and through it, can hear the sounds not
dissimilar to those around her.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	I thought, to begin, you might tell me
	how you're feeling.

		STARLING
	About what?

		LECTER'S VOICE
	The masters you serve and how they've
	treated you.  Your career, such as it is.
	Your life, Clarice.

The place is not just trains, but also a mall of stores, many
of them playing Christmas music.  Outside one of them, on the
second tier, Lecter, cell phone to his ear, watches Starling
trying to sort out the cacophony of sounds down below.

		STARLING'S VOICE
	I thought we might talk about yours.

		LECTER
	Mine?  What is there to say about mine?
	I'm happy.  Healthy.  A little nomadic at
	the moment but that'll soon change.  You,
	though.  You, I'm worried about.

Carlo and Piero, without phones, have entered the building
and brush past people as they scan its interior, looking for
and eventually spotting Starling rising up an escalator.

		STARLING
	I'm fine.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	No, you're not.  You fell in love with
	the Bureau - with The Institution - only
	to discover, after giving it everything -
	that it doesn't love you back.  That it
	resents you, more than the husband and
	children you gave up to it ever would.

Lecter is going down an escalator as Starling approaches
where he was just moments ago, outside the Gap Kids store.

		LECTER
	Why is that, do you think?  Why are you
	so resented?

		STARLING'S VOICE
	Tell me.

		LECTER
	Tell you?  Isn't it clear?  You serve
	the idea of order, Clarice - they don't.
	You believe in the oath you took - they
	don't.  You feel it's your duty to
	protect the sheep - they don't.  They
	don't like you because they're not like
	you.  They're weak and unruly and
	believe in nothing.

She's lost him.  Peers down over the railing.  Listens to the
background sounds in her phone.

		STARLING
	Mason Verger wants to kill you, Dr.
	Lecter.  Turn yourself in to me and I
	promise no one will hurt you.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Will you stay with me in my prison cell?
	Hmmm?  I suppose it wouldn't be that much
	worse than yours.

She hears a bell clanging.  Sees a Salvation Army "soldier"
in the far distance below, his back to her, his arm moving up
and down, but can't tell if it synchronizes with the sound in
her phone.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Mason doesn't want to kill me, Clarice,
	any more than I wanted to kill him.  He
	wants me to suffer in some - unimaginable
	way.  He's rather twisted, you know.
	Always has been.  Have you had the
	pleasure?

		STARLING
	I have.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Attractive, isn't he.  But back to you -

She steps off the down escalator and heads toward the
Salvation Army soldier and his little kettle hanging from the
tripod, the bell in her phone diminishing proportionally, it
seems, as she nears the live one.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	I want to know what it is you think you
	will do, now that all you cared about in
	the world is gone.  Will you work as a
	chambermaid at a motel on Route 66, like
	Mom?

		STARLING
	I don't know, Dr. Lec -

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Don't you want to harm those who have
	forced you to consider it?  I know you
	never would, but wouldn't you like to?
	Wouldn't it feel good?  It's all right to
	admit it.  It's perfectly natural.  To
	want to taste the enemy.

She stops moving.  Listens.  Hears Jingle Bells in her phone.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Are you thinking?  Or tracking, Ex-
	Special Agent Starling?

Jingle Bells begins to fade in her phone.  He's moving again.
She turns.  Carlo and Piero do an abrupt about-face.  But not
before Starling sees them.

		STARLING
	They're following me, Dr. Lecter.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	I know.  I see them.  Now you're in a
	real dilemma, aren't you?
	Do you continue to try to find me,
	knowing that you're leading them to me?
	Do you have so much faith in your
	abilites that you believe you could
	somehow - simultaneously - arrest me -
	and them?  It could get messy, Clarice.
	Like Memphis.

She can hear another voice - both "live" and in the phone -
"Ho, Ho, Ho, Merry Christmas" - and can see above heads in
the distance, a department store Santa Claus in a painted
plywood sleigh.  She moves toward him.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	What if I did it for you?

		STARLING
	Did what?

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Harmed them, Clarice.  The ones who've
	harmed you.  What if I made them scream
	apologies?  No, I shouldn't even say it
	because you'll feel - with your perfect
	grasp on right and wrong - that you were
	somehow - accompli - even though you
	wouldn't be.

		STARLING
	Don't - help me.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	No.  Of course not.  Forget I said it.

She's closing in on the sleigh and the barricade of kids and
parents around it, her free hand settling on the stock of her
.45, Carlo and Piero closing with her several steps back.

		SANTA CLAUS
	Ho - Ho - Ho.

Lecter sees her and the Sardinians pushing through the crowd.

		LECTER
	Ho, ho, ho, indeed.  I think I'll be
	going now.  I have some shopping to do
	anyway.  Chin up, Clarice.  Merry
	Christmas.

He disconnects the call.  Starling breaks through the front
of the crowd, moving just in front of the sleigh to scan the
faces all around her.  Lecter is gone.

EXT. D.C. DOWNTOWN - DAY

Traffic crawls past Christofle.

INT. CHRISTOFLE - DAY

An armed security guard's glance drifts across Lecter
pointing out to a saleswoman the Gien French china he'd like
to purchase.

Later, she rings up several purchases as Lecter looks on,
credit card out:  the plates, a set of aperitif glasses and
Riedel crystal, linen place mats and napkins, 19th-century
silverware with a pleasing heft like good dueling pistols.

INT. HAMMACHER SCHLEMMER - DAY

Lecter chooses a set of exquisite copper saute pans and a
couple of whisks.  Elsewhere, a salesman demonstrates for him
the adjustable height of the flame on a portable 35,000 BTU
stainless stell grill.

INT. MEDICAL SUPPLY STORE - DAY

And finally, to complete his batterie de cuisine, he pays for
a newly-new Stryker autopsy saw.

EXT. CHESAPEAKE BAY - EVENING

A late-model, but not new, Ford Ranger pickup pulls into
the driveway of a small yet charming cottage nestled in the
woods.

Lecter climbs out and gathers his bungy-corded shopping bags
from the truck bed, including the one with the distinctive
powder blue coloring.

He leaves the boxed Parker grill in back, at least for the
moment, carries the rest of his purchases to the front door,
fiddles with the lock to get it open and disappears inside.

INT. STARLING'S HOUSE - EVENING

Light bleeds along the edges of a scanner.  Images appear
on Starling's computer screen:  Brigham's FBI identification
next to a photo-booth picture of her.  Using a paint-program,
she replaces his photo with hers and prints it out.

INT. WINE STORE - ANNAPOLIS - DAY

As a wine merchant leans slightly to take a closer look at
Starling's new ID, laminated now, she closes its leatherette
holder.  Christmas Muzak plays softly from somewhere.

		STARLING
	You're sure it was Chateau d'Y quem.

		WINE MERCHANT
	Not only was it Chateau d'Y quem, it was
	Chateau d'Y quem - sixty-seven.  The best
	bottle of wine in the store.

		STARLING
	Can I see the tape?  If his car was
	parked out front, you may have caught the
	license plate.

EXT. STREET - ANNAPOLIS - SAME TIME

The rear license plate of the Ford Ranger.  10-foot Noble
Christmas tree in back.  The pickup parked across the street
from the shopping center the wine store is part of.

Behind the windshield, Lecter carefully surveys the people
and vehicles in the large parking lot and those appearing and
disappearing in his side and rearview mirrors, well aware
that one of them could contain the Sardinians.

INT. WINE STORE - CONTINUED

Starling has come behind the counter to join the merchant as
he fast-forwards through a security tape on a small black and
white monitor.

EXT. STREET - CONTINUED

Still in his truck, Lecter watches the parking lot across
the street.  He watches the trunk lid of a yellow cab spring
open and the driver setting his elderly fare's grocery bags
into it.  He watches a man struggling to twine a big Douglas
fir to the roof of a sub-compact that's too small for it.  He
watches a rolling, rattling cart without anyone attached to
it.

INT. WINE STORE - CONTINUED

Starling watches the fuzzy video tape.  Watches the man come
in wearing a parka and mittens and a billed cap pulled low
enough to hide his face, but can't make out the license
plates on the cars parked outside.

EXT. STREET / PARKING LOT - SAME TIME

Lecter puts the same hat on, unlatches his door, climbs
down.  He crosses the street to the lot and walks past parked
cars, a box in his hand wrapped in Christmas angels paper.

INT. WINE STORE - CONTINUED

The video tape shows the wine merchant returning from the
back room, wiping dust from a bottle and displaying its label
to the man in the billed hat.  Through the window of the
store now, if she was looking, she would see the same man
approaching her Mustang.

EXT. PARKING LOT - CONTINUED

A slim jim drops down the sleeve of Lecter's overcoat into
his hand.  A barrel of a rifle, somewhere, rises.  The blade
of the slim jim slides down between the driver's side jamb
and trips the lock.  Something slaps at the air across the
lot.  Something silver embeds itself in Lecter's neck.

INT/EXT. WINE STORE / PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS

Starling glances up at the air-rifle sound.  Glimpses a
figure outside collapsing against the open door of her car.

Squealing tires.  A van racing across the lot sends a cart
crashing into the door panel of an Audi.

The Christmas gift falls to the pavement.

Starling pulls out Brigham's .45 and the wine merchant
retreats quickly to the back room.  She runs from the store
and kneels to aim at the van just as a Lincoln Towncar pulls
up right in front of her, blocking her view.

The van's back doors fling open and two men leap down,
grabbing Lecter.

Starling back on her feet, aims over the hood of the Lincoln.

		STARLING
	Hold it!  FBI!  On the ground!

The handicapped parking placard and two old panicked faces
in the windshield of the Lincoln.  The screech of its tires
as it almost runs Starling over as she comes around it.

The back doors of the van yanked shut from inside.

Starling running toward the van, then kneeling again to aim
as it takes off -

An oblivious couple sharing the weight of a Christmas tree
twenty yards ahead, blocking the clear shot she almost had.

The van sliding into the street and accelerating.

Starling running to her car and writing down the license
plate number in the dirt on its hood.

Then seeing beside her slashed front tire, the trampled
Christmas package.  The box torn open.  The Prada shoes.

INT. FBI DC FIELD OFFICE - AN HOUR LATER - DAY

Halos around the mundane contents of a purse as it passes
through an x-ray machine; the visitor it belongs to stepping
through the metal detector.  Shouldering the purse she
crosses the lobby to the elevators, passing Pearsall coming
the other way.  He strides to where Starling waits - on the
street side of the security station - unable, in her current
lowly status, to get any deeper into the building.

		STARLING
	I know the first thing a hysteric says
	is, "I'm not a hysteric," but I'm not a
	hysteric.  I'm calm.

		PEARSALL
	I'll ask you one time.  Think before you
	answer.  Think about every good thing you
	ever did here.  Think about what you
	swore.  What did you see?

		STARLING
	Two men in a van.  A third driving.
	Another man shot and put into the back.
	I've given you the license plate and I'm
	reporting it all again to you, Clint
	Pearsall, at SAC Buzzard's Point.

He glances at the purse hanging from her shoulder.  No doubt
her Nagra is in it and taping.  Finally -

		PEARSALL
	All right.  I'll go with it as a
	kidnapping.  I'll send someone out there
	with the local authorities - if he'll let
	us on the property without a warrant -

		STARLING
	I'm going, too.  You could deputize -

		PEARSALL
	You're not going.  Unless you want to be
	arrested.  You're going home where you'll
	wait for me to call and tell you what, if
	anything, we found.

He turns and strides away.

EXT. VERGER'S ESTATE - NIGHT

Cordell standing amidst several idling marked and unmarked
police cars as the officers climb in and shut the doors.

		OFFICER
	Please thank Mr. Verger for letting us
	look around.  Sorry if we inconvenienced
	him.

		CORDELL
	Not at all.  He's always happy to see
	you.  He also wanted me to wish you and
	your families a Merry Christmas for him,
	and to assure you this'll not effect, in
	any way, his annual contribution to the
	Police Benevolence Fund.

One of the plain clothes men speaks into a cell phone -

		FBI AGENT
	Nothing here, Clint ... We're sure.

INT. VERGER'S CHAMBER - SAME TIME

The flashing lights of the patrol cars flare across the
black and white security monitors as the police drive away.
Verger, watching from his bed, presses a button on a remote
that dials a number.

INT. VAN - NIGHT

The ringing of a cell phone cuts through the voices and
static of a police scanner.  Carlo answers it.

		MASON'S VOICE
	How is he?

Lecter lies unconscious, handcuffed and bound on the floor
of the van.  One of Piero's hands - perilously close to the
doctor's mouth - feels for the pulse on his neck.  The
other holds a milk shake.

		CARLO
	Sleeping.

		MASON'S VOICE
	Bring him home.

EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT

The van's headlights blink on as it pulls out of the fast food
restaurant.

INT. STARLING'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The phone rings here in the darkened house.  The machine
answers it.

		PEARSALL'S VOICE
	Pick up, Starling... There was nothing
	out there... I'm going to say it again in
	case you didn't hear me clearly before:
	You are not a law officer while on
	suspension.  You're Joe Blow.  For your
	sake I hope you're just in the bathroom.

EXT. VIRGINIA HIGHWAY NEAR VERGER'S FARM - NIGHT

The police cars, their flashing lights dark now, pass
Starling's Mustang, headlights off, parked on a turn-out.

INT. VERGER'S MANSION - NIGHT

Cordell's shoes move along the same Moroccan runner as in
the first scene; only now there are others, work boots, three
sets, moving along with them, and the wheels of a hand truck.
They all cross onto the polished linoleum floor.

INT. VERGER'S CHAMBER - NIGHT

The hand truck stops.  Strapped to it is a singletree, a
thick oak crosspiece from a horse cart harness, and tied to
it with rope, Hannibal Lecter, wearing the famous mask from
The Silence of the Lambs.  Just coming out of the sedative
from the dart, he squints into the lights surrounding the
hospital bed.

		MASON
	Hylochoerus Meinertzhageni ...
	Does that ring a bell from high school
	biology, doctor?  No?  I could list its
	most conspicuous features if that would
	help jog the memory.

Suddenly the lights go out, allowing Lecter - and us - to see
Verger in the shadows in his bed.

		MASON
	Three pairs of incisors, one pair of
	elongated canines, three pairs of molars,
	four pairs of pre-molars upper and lower,
	for a total of forty-four teeth.

Lecter is conscious, but seems not be particularly interested
in the science lecture.

		MASON
	The meal will begin with an apertivo
	tartare.  Your feet.  The main course -
	the rest of you - won't be served until
	seven hours later, but during that time
	you'll be able to enjoy the effects of
	the consumed appetizer with a full-
	bodied saline drip.

No reaction, that can be read at least, from Lecter.

		MASON
	Much as I'd love to, I won't be joining
	you at the table since I can't move, but
	I will be watching a 3-camera video feed
	here, and I'll try to stay awake.
		(he smiles as much as he's
		 able; then)
	I guess you wish now you'd fed the rest
	of me to the dogs?  Hmmm?

		LECTER
	No, Mason.  I much prefer you the way
	you are.

		MASON
		(pause; then buoyantly)
	So.  Dinner at eight?  Bon appetit.

EXT. VERGER'S ESTATE - DAY

Starling's Mustang creeps along the service road without the
aid of its headlights.  Up ahead about a quarter mile, in the
trees, she can see the glare of a floodlight.

She stops.  Pulls the trunk release.  Climbs out and comes
around to it.  Rummages around the debris inside and selects
four pairs of cuffs, extra ammo, a knife and a flashlight.

She leaves the trunk ajar, aims the flashlight down, switches
it on and leads herself with its beam - careful to keep it no
more than two or three steps ahead - into the woods.

INT. BARN - NIGHT

Lecter, still trussed to the singletree, prone now on the
hand truck, stares up at the rafters where Tommaso sits in a
cane chair, a rifle in his lap.

Below, one of three closed-circuit video cameras mounted
on tripods watches as Carlo, not being too careful about it,
pierces his wrist with an IV needle.

		LECTER
	Your brother must smell worse than you
	do by now.

The blade of Carlo's knife is against Lecter's throat in
an instant.  From an intercom -

		MASON'S VOICE
	No, no, no - don't hurt him.

Lecter smiles at the Sardinian.  The knife slowly comes away
from his neck, leaving only a little blood.

Piero meanwhile is adjusting the angle of a gilt-framed
mirror hanging above the slatted gate Lecter's feet will soon
be stuck through.

		MASON'S VOICE
	And turn off that radio, I can't hear
	anything.

A shortwave radio on a wooden table that's broadcasting a
soccer game in Italian.  As Piero crosses to it -

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

Starling, still, listens as the already-faint sound of the
Italian announcer's voice fades to nothing.  She continues on
again toward the floodlit area beyond the trees until another
sound stops her.  Another recorded voice.  Begging and
screaming in Italian.

Suddenly, through the trees all around her, dark shapes are
moving fast.  She wants to but dares not point the flashlight
at them; if they're armed, the beam may as well be a painted
target on her chest.

She crouches.  Catches a glimpse of something big running
close to the ground past the trucks of the trees near her.
Then it's gone.

INT/EXT. BARN - NIGHT

The wild boars appear in the reflection of the large-gold-
framed mirror, jostling into a semi-circle like berserk
linemen posing for a team photo.

Piero dials down the screaming tape.  Carlo rights the hand
truck, hooks a saline bag to it, and wheels it toward the
slatted gate.  Tipped back, rolling slowly closer to his
death, Lecter begins humming Pomp and Circumstance.

INT. VERGER'S CHAMBER - NIGHT

Verger, glancing between three monitors displaying the
upcoming live event, glimpses something in one of them as it
darts along the fence line of the pen, then disappears.

		MASON
	What was that?  Cordell?  Did you see
	that?

INT/EXT. BARN - NIGHT

A boom of a .45 echoes in the barn.  Tommaso, still up in
the loft, throws himself down against the planks.

		STARLING
	Hold it!  Hands where I can see -

Carlo's hand swings around with a .357 in it.  Starling
fires once, knocking him back against the gate.  Piero makes
a move toward the fallen gun, but stops when he sees a slat
splinter right next to it, the boars surging at the gate to
get to Carlo on the ground just inside it.

		STARLING
	Down!

Piero kneels with his empty hands aloft.  Starling crosses
quickly with a set of handcuffs.  In the loft, Tommaso crawls
along the planks as she disappears from his view.  Down below
Lecter cranes his head to watch Starling pick up the gun.

		LECTER
	Good evening, Clar -

		STARLING
	Shut up.

She kneels.  Lecter tries to bend his head to watch her snap
a cuff around one of Carlo's wrists.

		STARLING
	Can you walk?

		LECTER
	Well, I don't know.  May I try?

The boars pound against the gate, trying to get at Carlo.
Starling drags him a couple of feet away and pulls a knife
from an ankle strap.

		STARLING
	I'm going to cut you loose.  If you touch
	me, I'll shoot you.

		LECTER
	Understood perfectly.

		STARLING
	Do right and you'll live through this.

		LECTER
	Spoken like a Protestant.

She cuts one of his arms free, keeping her gun trained on
Piero, still on the ground by Carlo.  The boars shatter
another slat.

		LECTER
	This might go a little quicker if you
	give me the knife.

She hesitates.  Then gives it to him.  As he cuts at the
ropes, she works to lock the other end of Carlo's cuffs onto
Piero's wrist.  As he removes the mask -

		LECTER
	Clarice?

		STARLING
	What.

		LECTER
	My back was turned when you came in.
	Was that a warning shot, or did you kill
	the one in the loft?

She spins around, aiming up, just as the bullet from the
rifle slams into her unvested abdomen.  Going down, she pulls
off three quick shots, hitting Tommaso in the chest.

As he falls from the loft, the boars come crashing through
the gate.  Piero desperately tries to get away, dragging the
dead weight of Carlo behind him.  Lecter lifts Starling from
the ground, blood running onto his fingers.

Piero is pulled down.  Lecter, holding Starling, surrounded
by the animals, too, stands perfectly still as the boars
ravage the three Sardinians.

INT. VERGER'S CHAMBER - SAME TIME

Verger stares in disbelief at the monitor that shows nothing
but the moving mass of the boars thrashing around but leaving
alone Lecter's legs.

		MASON
	Why aren't they - ?  Cordell -

		CORDELL
	I have to go now -

		MASON
	No.  In the drawer - right by your
	hand.  Open it.  Open it!

Cordell opens the drawer revealing a semi-automatic pistol.

		MASON
	Take it.  Go down there.  Shoot him.

		CORDELL
	No, I -

		MASON
	You're involved is what you are.

He's frightened is what he is.  He's a medical doctor, for
Christ's sake, not a hunter of madmen.  He stares at Verger.

		CORDELL
	What did you say - ?

		MASON
	I said you're involved.  In all of it.

Cordell seems to understand, nods in resignation, and turns
as if to take the gun.

		MASON
	Good.  Now -

Cordell plunges his hand into the aquarium and turns back
holding the writhing eel.  Watching him approach the bed with
it, Verger, for once, is speechless, staring at the serpent's
clicking teeth.

		CORDELL
	Good night, Mason.

As Cordell thrusts the head of the eel toward Verger's gaping
mouth -

INT/EXT. BARN - SAME TIME

Lecter, carrying Starling, stares a couple of the boars in
the eye, wades through them with impunity, steps out past the
splintered gate and disappears into the woods ...

EXT. CHESAPEAKE BAY - EVENING

A pair of distant headlights floating along the shoreline.

INT. KRENDLER'S CAR - EVENING

Krendler, trying to keep the agitation out of his voice,
speaks with an assistant on his car phone as he negotiates
the dark ribbon of road.

		KRENDLER
	I'll be out at my weekend place
	through Sunday.  I don't want any calls
	forwarded.  No, not even him.  Nobody.

He hangs up.  Wipes at beads of sweat just below the
sweatband of his jogging ensemble as his destination, his
weekend cottage, comes into view through the windshield.

EXT. KRENDLER'S COTTAGE - NIGHT

The car pulls into the driveway.  Krendler gathers up the
grocery bag from the passenger seat and carries it toward the
front door of his cottage, which also happens to be Lecter's.

INT. KRENDLER'S/LECTER'S COTTAGE - NIGHT

Krendler comes into the darkened kitchen.  Tries a light
switch that doesn't work.  Sets the grocery bag on a counter,
pulls open a drawer and takes out a corkscrew.  As he takes a
bottle of cheap Chianti from the bag, he notices a simple
strand of Christmas lights around a window.  Doesn't remember
hanging them.  Stares, cocking his head the way he does.

		LECTER'S VOICE
	Oh, good, you brought wine.

Before Krendler can turn, his mouth is covered with an ether-
soaked dish towel.

INT. KRENDLER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Starling's eyes open and slowly take in her surroundings:
the small, unfamiliar room, the bed she's in, the night stand
and the empty morphine vials on it, the silver tray with the
crumpled bullet on it.

She eases the blanket down enough to see her T-shirt, eases
the T-shirt up enough to see the bandage, ease the bandage
away enough to see the stitched gunshot wound.

She hears quiet Christmas music and muffled voices from
elsewhere in the house.  Two men speaking in conversational
tones.  She drags herself from the bed, steadies herself,
slowly crosses the room to, and down, a hallway.

At the end of it, she see:  A decorated Christmas tree.
An archway to a dining room, candles on the dining table.
Krendler, in his running clothes and sweatband, sitting at
the head of it.  Lecter, standing beside a portable grill on
a service cart, stirring at a saute pan with a wooden spoon.

		KRENDLER
	Are those shallots?

		LECTER
	Ummm.  And caper berries.

		KRENDLER
	The butter smells wonderful.

Starling glances from Krendler's face to his hands.  He
doesn't seem to notice or care that they're duct-taped to the
arms of a wheelchair.

INT. BEDROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Back in the bedroom, Starling uses her teeth to strip the
4-pin telephone wire that's been yanked from the wall jack.

INT. DINING ROOM - SAME TIME

As Lecter executes a modest flambe with a little brandy -

		LECTER
	I hope you're hungry, Paul.

		KRENDLER
	Very.  What's the main course?

		LECTER
	Oh, you never ask.  It spoils the
	surprise.

Lecter notices, but seems unconcerned, as the line-light
blinks on a telephone.

INT. BEDROOM - CONTINUED

Starling searches drawers for some kind of weapon as she
whispers into the phone -

		STARLING
	I don't have the address, but I think
	the house belongs to the hostage, whose
	name is Paul Krendler -

		911 OPERATOR
	I have it from the phone number.  Now
	if you can safely do it, get out of the
	house.  Otherwise, stay on the line where
	you are.  The response time should be ten
	minutes.  I'm putting you on hold for
	just a moment.

Starling hears an unusual sound from the other room, but
not so unusual that she doesn't recognize it:  It's the whir
of an autopsy saw.  She sets the receiver on the bed and -

		911 OPERATOR
	I'm back.  Ma'am - ?

The phone goes dead as Starling yanks the 25-foot cord from
the wall and wraps it quickly around her hand, taking it with
her, perhaps to use as a garrote, as she leaves the room.

INT. HALL / DINING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

She's moving along the hall again.  Hears the whir of the
saw grinding through - something - then stop.  She picks up a
heavy glass paperweight from a bookcase shelf and conceals it
in her hand.

She reaches the doorway to the living room and adjacent
dining area.  Sees Lecter straightening Krendler's sweatband.
The doctor glances up and regards her calmly.

		LECTER
	Clarice.  What are you doing up?
	You should be resting.  Get back to bed.

		STARLING
	I'm hungry.

Krendler's head slowly turns to follow her as she crosses
into the dining room unsteadily.

		STARLING
	Hello, Paul.

He doesn't respond.  He seems in some kind of trance.

		LECTER
	Paul.  Don't be rude.  Say hello to
	Agent Starling.

		KRENDLER
	Hello, Starling.  I always wanted to
	watch you eat.

As Lecter lays out another place setting of fine china (but
not silverware) for Starling, she sees the spent syringe and
the autopsy saw on a trivet next to the butane grill.

		LECTER
	Would you like to say grace?

		KRENDLER
	Me?  Grace?  Okay.

He bows his head.  Starling and Lecter don't.  She glances to
the twisting pendulum of a hurricane clock.  The doctor just
smiles faintly, well aware of the response time.

		KRENDLER
	Father, we thank thee for the blessings
	we are about to receive and dedicate them
	to Thy mercy.  Forgive us all, even white
	trash like Starling here, and bring her
	into my service.  Amen.

As his head comes back up, a single rivulet of blood drips
out from under the sweatband.  Lecter stirs at his beurre-
noisette.

		LECTER
	Paul, I have to tell you, the Apostle
	Paul couldn't have done better.  He hated
	women, too.

Krendler smiles rather stupidly at Starling.  As much as she
hates him, she doesn't want to see what she thinks Lecter has
in store for him, and tries to forestall it with conversation
and requests -

		STARLING
	May I have some wine?

		LECTER
	I don't think that's a good idea,
	Clarice.  Not with the morphine.  Better
	you should have some broth.

Lecter sets about ladling her and Krendler tureens of it.

		KRENDLER
	By the way, Starling, that was a job
	offer I worked into the blessing.  I'm
	going to Congress, you know.

		STARLING
	Are you?

		KRENDLER
	Come around campaign headquarters.
	You could be an office girl.  Can you
	type and file?  Can you take dictation?
	Take this down:  Washington is full of
	cornpone country pussy.

		STARLING
	I already took that down.  You said it
	before.

		LECTER
	Paul.  Please.  Now you are being rude.
	Drink your broth.

As Lecter puts a straw in the tureen to Krendler's lips
and whispers something in his ear, Starling eyes the sharper
utensils on the other side of the table next to the grill.

		KRENDLER
	This soup's not very good.

		LECTER
	I admit I added a little something extra
	to yours.  Perhaps it's clashing with the
	cumin.  I assure you, though, you'll love
	the second course, that is if I can serve
	it before Clarice bashes my head in.

He commands her to show him what's in the hand in her lap
with a smile and a slight tip of his head.  She obeys,
setting the paperweight weapon on the table.

		KRENDLER
	Hey, that's mine.

Lecter rakes it across to him with a folk like a croupier.
As Krendler shakes it and watches snow fall on the Capital
building, he's oblivious to Lecter taking off his sweatband
revealing the neat incision carved all the way around.

Starling can do little more than we can as Lecter lifts
the top of Krendler's head off - staring in disbelief at the
pinky-gray dome of Krendler's exposed brain.  Lecter reaches
for a set of tonsil spoons as the butter in the saute pan
sizzles to a golden brown.

		STARLING
	I really would like some wine.

Lecter, poised over Krendler's brain with the tongs, looks at
her disapprovingly.  She's holding out her empty glass like
Oliver as the pendulum twists back and forth.

		LECTER
	All right.  But just a little.

He sets the spoons down.  Pours some Chateau d'Y quem into
her glass as he glances to the twisting pendulum.

		LECTER
	Unlike Paul, I unfortunately can't
	offer you a job in government.  But I am
	curious.  What will you do now?

Right now her hand is slowly inching across the tablecloth
toward a serrated knife.  Lecter picks it up and one of the
tongs and deftly severs the thalamus of Krendler's brain -

		STARLING
	Doctor Lec -

		LECTER
	You certainly can't return to the
	bureau.  Not that you'd want to.  Even
	if you could convince them to take you
	back after all this, the Stain of Rein-
	statement would never go away.

Krendler's eyes look up as if to see what's going on, then
follow Lecter's hands as he sets his prefrontal lobe in the
saute pan.

		KRENDLER
	What did you say?

		STARLING
	I didn't say anything.

		KRENDLER
	I had plans for that smart mouth, but
	I'd never hire you now.  Who gave you an
	appointment anyway?

Lecter picks up the tongs again to scoop out another lobe.

		LECTER
	The brain itself feels no pain, Clarice,
	if that concerns you.  And Paul certainly
	won't miss this - the prefrontal lobe is
	the seat of manners.

		STARLING
	Dr. Lecter, your profile at the border
	stations has five features.  I'll trade
	you.  Stop now and I'll tell you what
	they are.

		LECTER
	Trade?  How does that word taste to you,
	Clarice?  Cheap and metallic like sucking
	on a greasy coin to me.  Your soup is
	getting cold.

He spoons out a second lobe and stirs it into the pan -

		KRENDLER
	That smells great.

		LECTER
	Have a taste, Paul.

He slides a taste of the "second course" onto a small plate,
forks a piece and slips it into Krendler's open mouth.

		KRENDLER
	Ummm, it is good.

		STARLING
	Dr. Lec -

		LECTER
	No, I think a new life lies before you.
	A better life.  With me?  Hmmm, there's a
	thought.

Is he serious?  He seems to be.  Krendler glances stupidly
from him to her and back again.

		LECTER
	I came halfway around the world just to
	watch you run in the woods.  Run with me,
	Clarice.

		KRENDLER
	Who's Clarice?

		LECTER
	Agent Starling, Paul.  If you can't keep
	up with the conversation, it's better you
	don't try to join in at all.

		KRENDLER
	Who?

		STARLING
	Me, Paul.  I'm Starling.

		KRENDLER
	I don't think you could even answer my
	phones, whoever you are.  That accent is
	just too - Appalachian.  "The Honorable
	Paul Krendler's office."

		LECTER
	Paul?

		KRENDLER
	What.

		LECTER
	Remember what I said before?  If you
	can't be polite to the other guests, you
	have to sit at the kids' table.

He sets the plates and sauce pan and all the utensils -
including the knife - in Krendler's lap, and unlocks the
wheels of the chair.

		LECTER
	I'll just be a minute cleaning up,
	Clarice.  Don't get up, Paul will help me
	clear.

As Lecter pushes Krendler toward the kitchen, he glimpses
on the way the headlights of a line of cars coming silently
along the shoreline.

		LECTER
	Think about what I said, but don't drink
	any more wine while you do.  Doctor's
	orders.

As soon as the door to the kitchen swings shut, she gets
up, too fast, almost faints, sits back down.  Listening for a
moment to the scraping of plates, she tries again to stand,
slower this time.  she blows out a candle, grasps the stem of
the heavy brass holder and with it and the phone cord, slowly
crosses toward the closed kitchen door.

She slowly eases it open, revealing:  Lecter, his back to
her, scraping the leftovers into Krendler's head and setting
the plates neatly in the dishwasher.  He closes its door then
and switches it on, and, keeping his back to her, begins
wiping down the counters with a dish towel.

She eases past the door, gripping the heavy candlestick, and
slowly approaches Lecter from behind, grateful for the hum of
the dishwasher that covers the creaking of the floorboards.

Krendler is staring right at her as he shakes his Capital
paperweight.  She places a finger to her lips to tell him not
to speak, and he glances away to the tiny falling snow.

		KRENDLER
	Would you like to swing on a star -
	Carry moonbeams home in a jar -

The candlestick comes up and hangs there - as if Starling
isn't entirely sure she wants to crack Lecter's skull open -
but then it does come down hard right at his head, and -

Turning, he catches her wrist in his hand and pushes her
roughly against the refrigerator, toppling the wheelchair and
Krendler, the rest of his brain and some leftovers spilling
onto the floor.  Lecter holds Starling firmly in his grip,
staring at her, intending, it appears, to kill her.  But
then, quietly -

		LECTER
	That's my girl.  If you hadn't tried,
	I would have killed you ... But don't try
	again ... I mean it.

He lets her hands go and she immediately lunges for him
again.  He grabs her wrists again, pushes her back up against
the fridge, opens it enough to catch her pnytail in the door
and shoves the candlestick through the side-by-side handles.

		LECTER
	Oh, Clarice, you are the honey in the
	lion.  In times to come, whenever you see
	yourself naked, whenever you see the scar
	- the quality of the stitching - you'll
	remember this moment -

His face, his sharp teeth, come threateningly close to her.
He kisses her hard on the mouth.

		LECTER
	- and your lips will burn.

He steps away, past Krendler and the wheelchair, picks up
a small Tupperware container from the counter and walks out,
leaving her to try to free herself.

EXT. THE COTTAGE - MOMENTS LATER

Starling comes slowly out onto the porch.  Looks for
movement in the dark shapes of the trees across the road and
sees none.  Looks out across the Chesapeake and sees nothing
in its dark water - except that the little rowboat, once
tied to the dock, is now gone.

Feeling faint again - or just tired of it all - she sits on
the porch swing, slows her breathing and the pounding of her
heart, listens to the creak of the chains and the growl of
the approaching police cars, and watches the glare of the
approaching headlights play across the dark trees of the
forest ...

				 DISSOLVE TO:

A VERMEER

hanging in a gallery.  Foreign museum visitors strolling
past, giving it a glance before moving on.  One man, though,
seems unable to get enough of it, standing before it as if
before a shrine as the others keep moving past.  It's
Barney.  The painting, Woman Holding the Balance -

				DISSOLVES TO:

A RECLINING WOMAN

asleep on a blanket on a beach.  Starling.  A beach ball
and a Walkman resting beside her.  The cord runs up across
the scar on her exposed midriff to a light pair of head-
phones.  Instead of music, she hears static, before -

		MAN V/O
	How are you covering yourself?

		WOMAN V/O
	Polaroids, monkey business, and none of
	your business.  I'm not going to run.
	One-point-five-mil, Ricky, flat fee.

The conversation is overtaken by static again.  Keeping her
eyes closed, Starling nudges the beach ball and the voices of
the man and woman, just two tiny figures waist deep in the
Miami beach surf, reemerge from the static -

		WOMAN V/O
	No discussion.  Just yes or no.

		MAN V/O
	Yes.  We'll make the transfer at the
	Sun Trust conference room in the vault.
	I'll bring my lockbox, you bring yours.

A beachcomber passes, walking along the wet sand between
Starling on the beach and the couple in the water.  Crawford.
In the headphones Starling hears -

		CRAWFORD V/O
	And we'll join the party, too.  That's
	it, Starling.  You just made us our ten
	percent.  And all you had to do was put
	on sun screen.

She smiles without opening her eyes.  Reaches down out of
habit to adjust her top to cover the scar.

		CRAWFORD V/O
	You don't need to hide it.  Your doctor
	did a nice job.  You can hardly see it -

The roar of a jet covers his last word -

				 DISSOLVE TO:

A RECLINING SLEEPING BOY

in a darkened 747 cabin, window shades down, movie
flickering.  Stewardesses move down the aisle gathering the
last of the lunch trays.

Sitting in coach next to the sleeping six year old boy,
Lecter, in Toronto Maple Leafs sweats, waits until he's sure
no one is looking at him, then, careful not to wake the boy,
reaches down under the seat in front of him, finds a box
and sets it on his lap.

It's from Dean & DeLuca.  Tied with a ribbon.  Lecter unknots
it.  Opens the lid.  Inside are Anatolian figs, pate de foie
gras, a half-bottle of St. Estephe and some silverware.

		BOY
	What's that?

Lecter sighs.  Then turns to the boy and makes a smile.

		LECTER
	Which?

		BOY
	That.

		LECTER
	Liver.

		BOY
	What are those?

		LECTER
	Figs.

		BOY
	And that?

Something in a plastic container.

		LECTER
	That I don't think you'd like.

		BOY
	It looks good.

		LECTER
	It is good.

		BOY
	Can I have some?

		LECTER
	You're a very unusual boy, aren't you?

		BOY
	I didn't eat what they gave me.

		LECTER
	Nor should you have.  It's not even food,
	as I understand the definition.  Which is
	why I always travel with my own.
		(the boy smiles; Lecter
		 smiles)
	Are you sure your mother wouldn't
	disapprove of your accepting food from
	a stranger?

		BOY
	She would.

		LECTER
	Ah, but she's asleep.

The boy's eyebrows lift conspiratorially.

		LECTER
	Which would you like to try?

The boy points to the plastic container.

		LECTER
	This?

The boy nods.  Lecter thinks about it.  Finally -

		LECTER
	I suppose it's all right.  After all,
	as I'm sure your mother tells you - mine
	certainly did:  It is important to always
	try new things.

As Lecter dips his fork into the appetizer and feeds it to
his young, grateful, adventurous fellow traveler -

FADE TO BLACKPotage
Story by
David Fury
Teleplay by
David Fury
and
Chris Brancato
and
Bryan Fuller
Directed by
David Slade
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Prod. #105/Air #103 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2012 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Jesse Alexander
Executive Producer: Chris Brancato
HANNIBAL
Potage
TEASER
1 INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - KITCHEN - MORNING (RE-USE EP 101) 1
A bright, intelligent young woman, ABIGAIL HOBBS answers the
PHONE her mother LOUISE and father JACOB are preparing
breakfast in the background.
ABIGAIL
Hello? Just a second.
(to her father)
Dad. Its for you.
CUT TO BLACK.
A CANOPY OF TREES
Shafts of light penetrate the branches and autumnal leaves
creating a moody surreality in the early morning mist.
We are --
2 EXT. MISTY FOREST - DAY 1 2
A serene tableau of natural beauty. A DISTANT CRICK and a
beautiful WHITE-TAIL DOE raises its head INTO FRAME,
listening. Previously munching leaves, it is now still.
An eerie quiet moment, then from far away... PKEE.
CLOSE ON - DOES EAR
A small piece of it is TAKEN OFF as BULLET GRAZES LOBE.
POP WIDE
The DOE BOLTS.
DOE P.O.V.
She races through the forest, darting between trees and dense
brush, desperate, terrified. Her HEART POUNDS, circulatory
system a raging torrent in her ears. She runs.
CLOSE ON - FIELD GLASSES
They lower to reveal a HUNTER, fully-outfitted, with his
daughter. This is GARRET JACOB HOBBS, our killer from
episode 101, and his daughter ABIGAIL, 19.
(CONTINUED)
He hands her the field glasses.
ABIGAILS P.O.V. -- THE DOE
It slows and stops, scanning the area, warily catching its
breath, listening. She turns to stare DIRECTLY at Abigail.
Sensing danger, the doe lopes away through the woods.
A GUN RAISES on Abigails shoulder, a 7 by 57 ROBERTS,
tracking the running prey. Her finger clenches the trigger.
GARRET JACOB HOBBS
Be patient. Wait for the shot.
Abigail Hobbs tracks the doe, squints through the scope,
FINGER SQUEEZES the trigger, the GUN FIRES LOUDLY --
On GARRET AND ABIGAIL, waiting with anticipation until they
hear a toppling CRASH in the woods. CAMERA PUSHES IN ON
Abigail. Shes not as happy about the kill as her father.
P.O.V. THROUGH PICKUP TRUCK WINDSHIELD
Over the carcass of the fallen DOE, we pull up in front of --
3 EXT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - DAY 1 3
Abigail and her father, Jacob, park in front of the cabin and
climb out of the pickup, beginning to untie the DOE.
4 INT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - MINNESOTA 4
Abigail and Jacob haul the DOE CARCASS into the room and
place her carefully on the GUTTING/SKINNING TABLE.
ABIGAIL
She was so pretty.
GARRET JACOB HOBBS
She is so pretty.
ABIGAIL
Arent deer supposed to be complex
emotional creatures?
GARRET JACOB HOBBS
Yup.
ABIGAIL
I read theyre like the equivalent
of a 4-year-old human being.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 2.
2 CONTINUED: 2
(CONTINUED)
GARRET JACOB HOBBS
Theyre smarter than a 4 year old.
ABIGAIL
(teasing)
So I just shot a smart 4 year old?
GARRET JACOB HOBBS
A prodigy deer?
ABIGAIL
Dad, I coulda killed the deer that
was going to solve global warming.
GARRET JACOB HOBBS
Dont tell your mother.
Having successfully secured the doe to the gutting table,
Abigail studies it sympathetically a moment.
ABIGAIL
They are a lot like us. They care
about each other, they care about
their environment. They tread
lightly through underbrush because
they dont want to hurt plants.
GARRET JACOB HOBBS
They are a lot like us and we will
honor every part of her. Her hide
is going to be a beautiful rug, her
leg bones we can carve into knives.
None of her will go to waste.
CLOSE ON - ABIGAIL AND JACOB
CAMERA FRAME OBSCURES THE DOE. Garret hands his daughter a
BUTTERFLY KNIFE and watches as Abigail guts the suspended
deer carcass -- all ACTION MOMENTARILY OFF-CAMERA.
GARRET JACOB HOBBS (CONTD)
Like we talked about. Start at the
sternum, keep the blade pointed up.
Damage any organs, ruin the meat.
Her blood-soaked hand reaches into the OFF-SCREEN DOE.
ABIGAIL HOBBS
I dont know how Im going to feel
about eating her after all this.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 3.
4 CONTINUED: 4
(CONTINUED)
WIDENING, to reveal that the suspended, bloody figure hanging
on the cabin wall isnt a doe, but instead is ELISE NICHOLS,
one of the Minnesota Shrikes victims seen in EPISODE 101.
GARRET JACOB HOBBS
Eating her is honoring her.
Otherwise its just murder.
5 INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL HOBBS ROOM - NIGHT 1 5
(NOTE: This is an up-scale PSYCHIATRIC hospital -- different
than seen before as Abigail Hobbs has been moved after the
security incident with Eldon Stammets in EPISODE 102.)
CLOSE ON ABIGAIL, respirator mask over her mouth, eyes rolled
up, lids fluttering when she SUDDENLY takes a SHARP INTAKE OF
BREATH. Her eyes snap wide open and she blinks focus to
them. As she takes in her surroundings, WIDEN to see her
laid out in her hospital bed. Other than the respirator, and
rapid BEEPING of the heart monitor attached to her, the floor
seems quiet, deserted. The previous scene was a NIGHTMARE.
A CHYRON tells us were in...
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND
Disoriented, her hands instinctively go to her throat,
feeling the bandages wrapped around it. Panicked, she yanks
off the oxygen mask, rips away at the sensors, wires, and
intravenous lines attached to her, with mounting anxiety...
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 4.
4 CONTINUED: (2) 4
ACT ONE
6 EXT. WILL GRAHAMS HOUSE - PATIO - EARLY MORNING 2 6
WILL GRAHAM steps out onto his porch in boxers and a t-shirt,
hair tussled from recently getting out of bed. Hes followed
by his PACK OF DOGS. The pooches bound down the stairs toward
the driveway and Will suddenly realizes hes not alone.
CAMERA FINDS ALANA BLOOM stepping out of her car to greet the
dogs as they return the favor. She smiles at Will.
ALANA BLOOM
Morning.
WILL GRAHAM
I didnt hear you drive up.
ALANA BLOOM
Hybrid. Good car for stalking.
WILL GRAHAM
Im compelled to go cover myself.
ALANA BLOOM
I have brothers.
WILL GRAHAM
Ill put on a robe just the same.
Do you want a cup of coffee? And
more immediately why are you here?
ALANA BLOOM
Yes. And Abigail Hobbs woke up.
Will stops in his tracks.
WILL GRAHAM
You know how to bury the lead.
ALANA BLOOM
Want me to get you a cup of coffee?
WILL GRAHAM
No, I want to get my coat.
ALANA BLOOM
Lets have a cup of coffee. Or
tea. Maybe a nice soothing tea.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 5.
7 INT. WILL GRAHAMS HOUSE - KITCHEN - LATER 7
Will and Alana sit in his kitchen sipping tea as Wills PHONE
RINGS and RINGS and RINGS and RINGS and finally stops.
WILL GRAHAM
Is he going to keep calling?
ALANA BLOOM
Jack wants you to go see her.
WILL GRAHAM
And you dont.
ALANA BLOOM
Eventually. Could help to take a
step back before a step forward.
WILL GRAHAM
Help who?
ALANA BLOOM
When you see Abigail, and I do
think you should see her, I want it
to be on your terms. I want you to
get what you need. I want Abigail
to get what she needs. What Jack
needs, Im not as concerned about.
Will smiles at her bulldoggishness in his defense.
ALANA BLOOM (CONTD)
I dont want to get in the middle
of you and Jack, but if I can be
helpful to you as a buffer...
WILL GRAHAM
I like you as a buffer. I also
like the way you rattle Jack.
He respects you too much to yell at
you no matter how much he wants to.
ALANA BLOOM
And I take advantage of that.
Will turns the subject back to what hes most concerned with.
WILL GRAHAM
Abigail Hobbs doesnt have anyone.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 6.
(CONTINUED)
ALANA BLOOM
You cant be her everyone. Dont
have to draw a line, but you might
want to know where your line is.
WILL GRAHAM
Keep my distance?
She considers how to respond to that, then:
ALANA BLOOM
When I said what I was going to say
in my head, it sounded insulting.
Ill find another way to say it.
WILL GRAHAM
Say it the insulting way.
ALANA BLOOM
Dogs keep a promise a person cant.
WILL GRAHAM
Im not collecting another stray.
ALANA BLOOM
I told you it was insulting.
WILL GRAHAM
I get it. I can trust a dog to be
a dog, but I cant trust Abigail
Hobbs to be who I think she is.
ALANA BLOOM
The first person Abigail talks to
about what happened cant be anyone
who was there when it happened.
That means no Dr. Lecter, either.
WILL GRAHAM
Much less the guy who killed Dad.
ALANA BLOOM
Let me reach out to her my own way.
8 INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - DAY 2 8
ALANA BLOOM waddles down the corridor, struggling to hold
onto the SEVERAL SHOPPING BAGS shes carrying.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 7.
7 CONTINUED: 7
9 INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL HOBBS ROOM - CONTINUOUS 9
Alana ENTERS as quietly as possible, given the circumstances,
to find ABIGAIL HOBBS sitting up in bed, reading a book,
exhausted, vacant, looking like she just woke up from a coma.
ALANA BLOOM
Hi. Im Alana Bloom.
Alana unloads the shopping bags on the couch.
ABIGAIL
Are you a doctor?
ALANA BLOOM
Not medicine. Im a psychiatrist.
ABIGAIL
What do you specialize in?
ALANA BLOOM
Among other things, family trauma.
ABIGAIL
I asked the nurses if my parents
were dead and they wouldnt tell
me. Said I had to wait for you.
Alana sits on the edge of Abigails bed.
ALANA BLOOM
Im sorry you had to wait.
ABIGAIL
I know theyre dead.
Alana studies her and the strange admission. Abigails chin
crumples with emotion but she fights it.
ABIGAIL (CONTD)
Who buried them?
ALANA BLOOM
They havent been buried.
ABIGAIL
Dont you think they should be?
ALANA BLOOM
Your mother was cremated per the
instructions in her living will.
An almost imperceptible scoff, then:
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 8.
(CONTINUED)
ABIGAIL
Living. Will. My dad?
ALANA BLOOM
Your father is more complicated.
ABIGAIL
Because he was crazy?
ALANA BLOOM
Nurses said you didnt remember.
ABIGAIL
I remember. I just didnt want to
talk about it with them.
(then)
Is this your book?
ALANA BLOOM
I was reading it to you.
ABIGAIL
I started turning pages. Felt like
I read it before. I remember your
voice and dreaming about peacocks.
(then)
Arent they really stupid birds?
Alana realizes Abigail is quoting her conversation with Will.
ALANA BLOOM
Yes.
ABIGAIL
I want to sell the house. I guess
its mine now. I can use the money
for college, get an apartment.
Alana studies Abigail and her surprising practicality.
ABIGAIL (CONTD)
(re: shopping bags)
Whatre all those?
ALANA BLOOM
Brought you some clothes. Thought
a change would feel good. I guessed
your size. Anything you dont want
keep the tags on. Ill return it.
And I brought you some music, too.
ABIGAIL
Your music?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 9.
9 CONTINUED: 9
(CONTINUED)
ALANA BLOOM
If there isnt anything you like, I
got a stack of iTunes gift cards.
Ive got a stack of gift cards. I
dont do well redeeming gift cards.
ABIGAIL
Probably says something about you.
ALANA BLOOM
Probably does.
10 INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORDS OFFICE - DAY 2 10
Alana Bloom and HANNIBAL sit across from JACK CRAWFORD.
JACK CRAWFORD
I have 7 families waiting, let me
rephrase, demanding that we find
whatevers left of their daughters.
Abigail Hobbs is the only person I
can ask who might know the truth.
ALANA BLOOM
You cant ask her right now. We
have to create a safe place for her
first or you wont get any answers.
JACK CRAWFORD
I respect your sympathy for her,
Doctor Bloom. One day I hope
youll appreciate my lack of it.
ALANA BLOOM
I have some appreciation.
JACK CRAWFORD
Only body we found is the one Hobbs
didnt eat. 7 bodies. 7 girls.
HANNIBAL
7 sisters, in Abigails mind. When
she learns of her fathers crimes.
JACK CRAWFORD
May already know about them. Her
DNAs all over his slaughterhouse.
ALANA BLOOM
You really think Abigail helped her
father kill those girls?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 10.
9 CONTINUED: (2) 9
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
It is one possibility that needs to
be ruled out. If she didnt help
her father, she may know who did.
HANNIBAL
(to Alana)
How was Abigail? When you saw her?
ALANA BLOOM
Surprisingly practical.
JACK CRAWFORD
Suspiciously practical?
HANNIBAL
I would suggest she can be
practical without being a murderer.
ALANA BLOOM
I think shes hiding something.
HANNIBAL
It may simply be her trauma.
ALANA BLOOM
Yes. Could also be more. She has a
penchant for manipulation, withheld
information to gain information.
She demonstrated only enough
emotions to prove she had them.
JACK CRAWFORD
Appreciating my lack of sympathy?
ALANA BLOOM
Providing psychological evaluation.
HANNIBAL
You said it may be more than trauma
yet you question her involvement in
the murders her father committed.
ALANA BLOOM
What Im questioning is her state
of mind. She repeated something I
said when she was... unconscious.
JACK CRAWFORD
Leading you to believe she wasnt.
ALANA BLOOM
Leading me to believe it was odd.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 11.
10 CONTINUED: 10
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
It is odd, but not unheard of for
the comatose or anesthetized to
recall word for word conversations
that took place in their presence.
JACK CRAWFORD
I want Will Graham to talk to her.
ALANA BLOOM
Jack. Not yet.
JACK CRAWFORD
Doctor Bloom, youre not Wills
psychiatrist. Doctor Lecter is.
HANNIBAL
For intents and purposes, yes, but
Im not entirely objective on this.
Will and I share a compassion for
Abigail Hobbs, we saved her life.
JACK CRAWFORD
Then who better to create a safe
place for her to answer questions.
CLICK. CLICK. CLICK. CLICK. CLICK.
A succession of PHOTOS of YOUNG WOMEN, similar in appearance.
WILL GRAHAM (V.O.)
Garret Jacob Hobbs abducted and
murdered eight girls over an eight
month period. They each had the
same hair color. Same eye color.
CLICK. We are --
11 INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - DAY 2 11
Will Graham stands in front of his classroom.
WILL GRAHAM
Same age, same height, same weight
as his daughter Abigail. But there
was a ninth victim who fit Abigail
Hobbs profile but Garret Jacob
Hobbs didnt murder her.
CLICK. A PICTURE OF CASSIE BOYLE, impaled on the antlers of
a severed stag head, her death a grotesque work of art.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 12.
10 CONTINUED: (2) 10
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
The killer who did wanted us to
know he wasnt the Minnesota
Shrike. He was better than that. He
is an intelligent psychopath. He is
a sadist. He will never kill like
this again. So how do we catch him?
ANGLE TO INCLUDE THE ENTRANCE
Jack Crawford and Hannibal ENTER, the reflective light of the
projection screen bounces off their faces. In hushed tones:
HANNIBAL
Giving a lecture on Hobbs Copy
Cat?
JACK CRAWFORD
Need every mind on this we can get.
ON WILL GRAHAM
WILL GRAHAM
This Copy Cat is an avid reader of
Freddie Lounds and TattleCrime.com.
He had intimate knowledge of Garret
Jacob Hobbs murders. Motives,
patterns. Enough to recreate them
and arguably elevate them. To art.
CLICK. A PICTURE OF ABIGAIL and GARRET JACOB HOBBS in
happier times on a hunting expedition.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
How intimately did he know Garret
Jacob Hobbs? Did he appreciate him
from afar, or did he engage him?
Did he ingratiate himself into
Hobbs life? Did Hobbs know his
Copy Cat as he knew him?
CLICK. A PICTURE OF LOUISE HOBBS, her throat sliced open,
lying in a dark pool of her own blood.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
Before Garret Jacob Hobbs murdered
his wife and attempted to do the
same to his daughter, he received
an untraceable call, re-routed
through a swatting service.
CLICK. A PICTURE OF GARRET JACOB HOBBS, bloodied and filled
with bullets, slumped dead in the corner of his kitchen.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 13.
11 CONTINUED: 11
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
I believe the as-yet unidentified
caller was our Copy Cat Killer.
ON JACK CRAWFORD AND HANNIBAL
CAMERA PUSHES IN ON Hannibal silhouetted in the darkness.
HANNIBAL
Brilliant.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 14.
11 CONTINUED: (2) 11
ACT TWO
12 EXT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - DAY 2 - ESTABLISHING 12
TIME-LAPSE.
13 INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL HOBBS ROOM - DAY 2 13
Abigail sits upright in bed, senses on alert.
ABIGAIL
So youre not a doctor or a nurse
or a psychiatrist?
CAMERA REVEALS FREDDIE LOUNDS standing across from her.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Im a journalist. I want to tell
the truth. Your truth. Sometimes
that involves some deception. But
know this, I will never lie to you.
ABIGAIL
Sounds like what a liar would say.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
You have every right not to trust
me, but in time, Abigail, I hope
you let me prove that you can.
(off her look)
If you tell me what you know, I can
help you fill in the blanks.
ABIGAIL
Why not tell me what you know.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Your dad was the Minnesota Shrike.
(off her silence)
Your mother wasnt the first person
your father killed. He killed 8
girls. 8 girls that look --
ABIGAIL
Just like me.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Yes.
Abigail reels from the larger meaning of that.
ABIGAIL
Why did they call him the Shrike?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 15.
(CONTINUED)
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Its a bird that impales its prey,
harvests its organs to eat later.
ABIGAIL
He ate them?
FREDDIE LOUNDS
(nods)
He was sick.
ABIGAIL
Does that mean Im sick, too?
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Youll be fighting that perception.
Perception is the most important
thing in your life right now.
ABIGAIL
I dont care what anyone thinks.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
You better start caring, Abigail.
What you remember, what you tell
everyone, is going to define the
rest of your life. Let me help you.
ABIGAIL
Help me what?
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Carve a path in this world so you
can survive what your father did.
And not be held accountable.
Abigail absorbs the brunt of that truth.
ABIGAIL
How did they catch him?
FREDDIE LOUNDS
A man named Will Graham. Works for
the FBI but isnt FBI. He catches
insane men because he can think
like them. Because he is insane.
ANGLE TO INCLUDE DOORWAY
Will Graham, Hannibal and TWO HOSPITAL ORDERLIES ENTER.
FREDDIE LOUNDS (CONTD)
Speak of the devil.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 16.
13 CONTINUED: 13
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
Would you excuse us please?
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Im not leaving you alone with her.
Will nods to the Orderlies, who then flank Freddie.
WILL GRAHAM
(to Abigail)
Im Special Agent Will Graham.
As Freddie is escorted to the door:
FREDDIE LOUNDS
By Special Agent, he means not
really an Agent. He didnt get
past the screening process.
(to Will)
Too unstable.
HANNIBAL
I must insist you leave the room.
Before leaving, Freddie offers Abigail a business card.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
If you want to talk --
Will snatches the card without saying a word. Freddie doesnt
offer any more resistance as the Orderlies escort her out.
WILL GRAHAM
Abigail, this is Doctor Lecter...
Do you remember us?
QUICK POP TO:
14 INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - KITCHEN (RE-USE EP 1O1) 14
Abigail lies bleeding, gasping, terrified. Will frantically
tries to stem the hemorrhage from her cut throat. Hannibal
kneels besides Abigail and applies pressure to her wound.
POP BACK TO:
15 ABIGAIL HOBBS ROOM - RESUMING 15
ABIGAIL
I remember you.
(then)
You killed my dad.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 17.
13 CONTINUED: (2) 13
(CONTINUED)
That hangs there a moment, a weighted memory, then:
HANNIBAL
Youve been in a bed for 3 weeks,
Abigail. Why dont we have a walk?
16 EXT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - GARDENS - DAY 2 16
Abigail walks weak-legged, supported by Hannibal and Will.
WILL GRAHAM
Im sorry we couldnt save your
mother. We did everything we
could, but she was already gone.
Tears sting Abigails eyes, threatening to spill, but dont.
ABIGAIL
I know. I saw him kill her.
HANNIBAL
You saw it?
ABIGAIL
It was sort of like seeing it.
HANNIBAL
There was no vocabulary for your
mind to articulate the violence.
ABIGAIL
Didnt seem real. He was loving
right up until the second he
wasnt. He kept telling me he was
sorry and to just hold still. He
was going to make it all go away.
WILL GRAHAM
There was plenty wrong with your
father, Abigail, but theres
nothing wrong with you. You said
he was loving. I believe it.
Thats what you brought out in him.
ABIGAIL
Its not all I brought out in him.
HANNIBAL
Did he tell you about the young
women he murdered?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 18.
15 CONTINUED: 15
(CONTINUED)
Abigail goes silent and Will shoots Hannibal a look.
WILL GRAHAM
You dont have to answer that right
now, if you dont want to.
HANNIBAL
But we will have to ask you those
questions eventually.
ABIGAIL
Im going to be messed up, arent
I? Im worried about nightmares.
HANNIBAL
Well help you with the nightmares.
WILL GRAHAM
Theres no such thing as getting
used to what you experienced. It
bothers me a lot. I can only
imagine how it bothers you when I
see it over and over in my mind.
(then)
I worry about nightmares, too.
ABIGAIL
Do you have nightmares about
killing my dad?
WILL GRAHAM
Sometimes its hard for me to dream
about much else.
ABIGAIL
Killing somebody, even if you have
to do it, it feels that bad?
WILL GRAHAM
Ugliest thing in the world.
Hannibal eyes Will, knowing hes not telling the whole truth.
Abigail takes Wills words in for a brief moment, then:
ABIGAIL
I want to go home.
17 EXT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - PARKING LOT - DAY 2 17
Freddie Lounds leans on the hood of Hannibals midnight blue
Bentley, waiting. She spots Hannibal and Will as they
approach and quickly stands, almost respectfully.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 19.
16 CONTINUED: 16
(CONTINUED)
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Special Agent Graham, I never
formally introduced myself.
(offers her hand to Will)
Im Freddie Lounds.
WILL GRAHAM
Trying to salvage this joke from
the mouth of madness?
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Please. Let me apologize for my
behavior in there. It was sloppy
and misguided. And hurtful.
HANNIBAL
Miss Lounds, now isnt the time.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Look, you and I may have our own
reasons for being here, but I also
think we both genuinely care what
happens to Abigail Hobbs.
WILL GRAHAM
You told her I was insane.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
I can un-do that.
WILL GRAHAM
You help Abigail see me as more
than her fathers killer and I help
you with online ad sales?
FREDDIE LOUNDS
I can un-do what I said. I can
also make it a lot worse.
WILL GRAHAM
Miss Lounds, its not very smart to
piss off a guy who thinks about
killing people for a living.
Hannibal sighs at Wills unfortunate choice of words.
18 INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORDS OFFICE - DAY 2 18
Jack sits behind his desk reading off his computer screen:
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 20.
17 CONTINUED: 17
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
Its not very smart to piss off a
guy who thinks about killing people
for a living.
(then)
Know what else isnt very smart?
He addresses silent Will sitting across from him. Hannibal
and Alana sit on either side of Will, mutually concerned.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
(to Hannibal)
You were there with him and you let
those words come out of his mouth.
HANNIBAL
I trust Will to speak for himself.
JACK CRAWFORD
Evidently, you shouldnt.
ALANA BLOOM
Im just happy the story wasnt
about Abigail Hobbs.
JACK CRAWFORD
Then its a victory.
(then)
Abigail Hobbs wants to go home.
Lets take Abigail Hobbs home.
ALANA BLOOM
What Abigail wants and what she
needs are two different things.
Taking her out of a controlled
environment would be reckless.
JACK CRAWFORD
You said she was practical.
WILL GRAHAM
That could just mean she has a
dissociative disorder.
ALANA BLOOM
You take her home, she may
experience intense emotions,
respond aggressively. Or reenact
some aspect of the traumatic event
without even realizing it.
JACK CRAWFORD
Doctor Lecter?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 21.
18 CONTINUED: 18
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
Doctor Bloom is right, but there is
a scenario where revisiting the
trauma event could help Abigail
heal and actually prevent denial.
JACK CRAWFORD
We have a difference of opinion,
therefore Im choosing the opinion
that best serves my agenda.
ALANA BLOOM
Will killed her father to save her
life. If she sees Will as her
savior and he doesnt meet her
expectations, she could transfer
rage toward her father onto him.
JACK CRAWFORD
Hell deal with it.
(then)
I want to know if Wills right
about our Copy Cat.
HANNIBAL
That the Copy Cat called the Hobbs
house before the murders?
Jack nods.
ALANA BLOOM
We have no way of knowing whats
waiting for her when she goes home.
A19 INT. TBD MINNESOTA COFFEE BAR LOCATION - DAY A19
NICHOLAS BOYLE sits at a table as Freddie Lounds approaches
with two cups of coffee, sitting one down in front of him.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Thanks again for meeting me. I
know this hasnt been easy for you.
NICK BOYLE
How would you know?
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Ive been writing about Garret
Jacob Hobbs. Ive spoken to
relatives of his other victims.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 22.
18 CONTINUED: (2) 18
(CONTINUED)
NICK BOYLE
Hobbs is dead. Deserved a lot
worse. Him and his whole family.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
There has to be some small comfort
that justice was served.
NICK BOYLE
Comfort? My sister was impaled on
a severed stag head. Cut down the
middle. He pulled her lungs out
while she was still breathing.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Im sorry, I am, but you have to
try not to remember her that way.
NICK BOYLE
What do you want from me?
FREDDIE LOUNDS
I just thought you should know
Abigail Hobbs came out of her coma.
OFF Nick Boyle taking that in...
19 EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - DAY 3 19
An EXPENSIVE RENTAL CAR pulls into the driveway, Hannibal
behind the wheel. All four doors OPEN and Hannibal, Will,
Alana and Abigail step out to consider the Hobbs home.
REVERSE TO REVEAL in 8-FOOT-TALL LETTERS scrawled across the
front of the house, graffiti style, the word CANNIBALS.
OFF Abigail...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 22A.
A19 CONTINUED: A19
ACT THREE
20 EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - DAY 3 20
As Will, Hannibal and Alana look on, Abigail stares at the
faded rust-colored stain on the front step, where her mother
died, her eyes brimming with tears but not overflowing.
ABIGAIL
I was sort of expecting a body
outline in chalk or tape.
WILL GRAHAM
They only do that if youre still
alive and taken to the hospital
before they finish the crime scene.
Those words wash over Abigail, shes barely aware of them.
ABIGAIL
Goodbye, mom.
21 INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - FOYER - DAY 3 21
The DOOR OPENS in the darkened space. Alana and Abigail
ENTER, Hannibal and Will float closely behind.
22 THE KITCHEN 22
Abigail lingers in the doorway. The room is more or less
scrubbed, thoroughly gone over by CLEANERS.
ALANA BLOOM
If you ever want to go, you just
have to say so and we will go.
ABIGAIL
Go where? Back to the hospital?
ALANA BLOOM
For now.
Alana and Hannibal hang back and allow Will to follow Abigail
into the kitchen. She notices all the family pictures on the
refrigerator have been turned around.
ABIGAIL
They turned all the pictures over.
ALANA BLOOM
Crime scene cleaners will do that.
She glances at the clean table and the linoleum floor.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 23.
(CONTINUED)
ABIGAIL
They did a really good job. Is
that where all my blood was?
WILL GRAHAM
Yes.
Abigail wraps her head around that.
ABIGAIL
You do this all the time? Go
places and think about killing?
WILL GRAHAM
Too often.
ABIGAIL
So you pretended to be my dad?
WILL GRAHAM
And people like your dad.
ABIGAIL
What did that feel like? To be him?
WILL GRAHAM
If feels like Im talking to his
shadow suspended on dust.
ABIGAIL
You think you knew him?
WILL GRAHAM
I tried to know him. I still try.
ABIGAIL
Even after you killed him?
WILL GRAHAM
Maybe even because I killed him.
Alana studies Will, realizing how difficult this is for him.
ABIGAIL
No wonder you have nightmares.
HANNIBAL
We should discuss your nightmare.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 24.
22 CONTINUED: 22
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
The attacks on you and your mother,
they were different. Desperate.
Your dad knew he was out of time.
Someone told him we were coming.
ABIGAIL
The man on the phone?
WILL GRAHAM
It was a blocked call. Did you
recognize his voice?
ABIGAIL
I had never heard it before.
A small, almost imperceptible glance at Hannibal.
ALANA BLOOM
Was there anybody new in your
fathers life. Someone you met or
someone he talked about.
Abigail shakes her head no.
WILL GRAHAM
He may have been contacted by
another serial killer, a copy cat.
ABIGAIL
Someone whos still out there?
WILL GRAHAM
Yes.
Off Abigail realizing her nightmare isnt over...
23 EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - DAY 3 23
Will, Alana and Abigail scrub with soap and brush the
GRAFFITI LETTERS spelling CANNIBALS. Hannibal delivers a
bucket of soapy water -- the extent of his hard labor.
ABIGAIL
Can you catch somebodys crazy?
ALANA BLOOM
Folie a deux.
ABIGAIL
What?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 25.
22 CONTINUED: (2) 22
(CONTINUED)
ALANA BLOOM
A French psychiatric term.
Madness shared by two.
Wills BREATHING and HEART BEAT grow deafening in his ears as
he stares at the door when it suddenly OPENS. LOUISE HOBBS,
bleeding and wheezing, is shoved onto the doorstep by GARRET
JACOB HOBBS, who slams the door behind her.
Will SNAPS BACK TO REALITY, continuing to scrub the graffiti
off the side of the house.
HANNIBAL
One can not be delusional if the
belief in question is accepted as
ordinary by others in that persons
culture or subculture. Or family.
ABIGAIL
My dad didnt seem delusional. He
was a perfectionist. After he
skinned a deer, he would pluck the
loose hair. Most people use a
torch. Dad would remove all the
hair by hand. He wanted to make
sure he got every one of them.
WILL GRAHAM
Your dad left almost no evidence.
ABIGAIL
Is that why you let me come home?
To find evidence?
HANNIBAL
It was one of many considerations.
ABIGAIL
Are we going to re-enact the crime?
(to Will and Alana)
You be my dad. You be my mom.
(to Hannibal)
And you be the man on the phone.
Uncharacteristically, Hannibal is caught off guard by that.
More so by Abigails steely nonchalant stare that followed.
ALANA BLOOM
We wanted you to come home to help
you leave home behind.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 26.
23 CONTINUED: 23
(CONTINUED)
ABIGAIL
Youre not going to find any of
those girls, you know.
WILL GRAHAM
Why do you say that?
ABIGAIL
Hed honor every part of them. Made
plumbers putty out of elk bones.
At least thats what he told us.
You know, to seal threads. Whatever
bones were left of those girls is
probably holding pipes together.
HANNIBAL
Where did he make this putty?
ABIGAIL
At the cabin. I can show you.
ALANA BLOOM
Abigail... theres someone here.
Abigail finds MARISSA (Abigails age) standing behind her.
MARISSA
Hey, Abigail.
ABIGAIL
Hey.
24 EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - BACKYARD - STREAM - DAY 3 24
Abigail and Marissa walk the stream that runs like a scar
through the yard. Marissa nods at Abigails bandaged neck.
MARISSA
Does it hurt?
ABIGAIL
Sometimes.
MARISSA
I thought it was TV. But I was
watching Applejack and Twilight and
they dont scream like that. And
then there was all this shooting.
Bang-bang-bang-bang-bang-bang. Very
surreal, very public. Everybody on
the block was on the news and then
everybody at school. Whores.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 27.
23 CONTINUED: (2) 23
(CONTINUED)
ABIGAIL
They wont let me online.
MARISSA
You dont want to be online. Its
all The family that preys together
stays together. But prey is with
an E instead of an A because --
ABIGAIL
(cutting her off)
Did you talk to the news?
MARISSA
No. My mom doesnt want me talking
to you, much less the news.
Marissa glances over her shoulder looking out for her mother.
ABIGAIL
Since when do you listen to her.
MARISSA
Clearly Im not listening to her if
Im here talking to you. You know
everybody thinks you did it.
ABIGAIL
I read the front of my house.
MARISSA
Those bitches from pep squad.
ABIGAIL
Do you think I did it?
MARISSA
I dont think youre the type. But
I didnt think your dad was the
murder-suicide type. Although the
hunting should have been a clue.
ABIGAIL
Mine or his?
MARISSA
Both, now that you mention it.
(clarifying)
I dont think you did it.
MANS VOICE
I do.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 28.
24 CONTINUED: 24
(CONTINUED)
The girls look over to see a MAN IN HIS MID-20s named NICK.
ABIGAIL
This is private property.
NICK BOYLE
You were the bait. Is that how it
worked? Lure em back to daddy for
dinner? Howd you trap my sister?
Chat her up? Say things girls say?
MARISSA
Piss. Off.
Marissa picks up a rock and throws it at Nick. He sidesteps
to avoid her stone, continues to harass.
NICK BOYLE
You help dad cut my sisters lungs
out while she was still using them?
Marissa throws another rock, striking Nick across his
forehead, leaving a small gash. He stumbles, briefly
silenced. When he looks up, clutching his bloody head wound,
his looks right at Marissa, murder in his eyes...
...then he reacts and quickly turns and RUNS. Marissa and
Abigail turn to see Will and Hannibal approaching from around
the house. Alana and MARISSAS MOTHER (early 40s) follow
immediately behind. Abigail turns, but Nick is already gone.
HANNIBAL
Who was that?
ABIGAIL
Somebodys brother.
MARISSAS MOTHER
Marissa. Come home.
Hannibal studies Marissas rude behavior as she snaps at her
mother:
MARISSA
Stop being such a bitch.
(to Abigail)
See you later.
ABIGAIL
Bye.
TIME CUT TO:
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 29.
24 CONTINUED: (2) 24
25 EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - ACROSS THE STREAM - MOMENTS LATER 25
Hannibal and Will stomp through the forest, returning from
looking for Nick Boyle.
WILL GRAHAM
Hes gone.
Hannibals eyes fall to a bloodied rock on the embankment
near the stream. As he turns to meet Will, his foot
inconspicuously kicks a few dead leaves to cover the stone.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
Youve never seen him before?
ABIGAIL
No. Have you?
Will shakes his head no.
HANNIBAL
We should report this, yes?
WILL GRAHAM
Yes.
CUT TO:
26 EXT. WILL GRAHAMS HOUSE - DAY - DREAMSCAPE 26
SLOW MOTION. Will stands outside his home, an eerie moment
of silence, his CIRCULATORY SYSTEM humming in his ear, then a
subtle crunching of grass indicates Will is not alone.
He glances over to see...
A BLACK STAG
It walks quietly through the meadow toward Will, who holds
his breath, taking in the surreal vision of this beast. The
BLACK STAG stops and watches Will.
ON WILL GRAHAM
He is now holding ABIGAIL HOBBS with a knife to her throat.
WILL GRAHAM
Im sorry, Abigail. Please just
hold still. Please. Im going to
make it all go away.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 30.
(CONTINUED)
Will stares at the BEAST, then cuts Abigails throat.
ARTERIAL SPRAY peppers the grass in large drops. A horrible
TONE pierces the air as the BLACK STAG BOLTS.
CUT TO:
WILL GRAHAM
He startles awake in his bed at the abrasive drone of the
ALARM CLOCK, drenched with sweat. We are --
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 30A.
26 CONTINUED: 26
27 INT. MOTEL ROOM - DAY 4 27
Will peels off his wet t-shirt and shuffles to the curtains
to let a blast of DAYLIGHT into the darkened room.
28 EXT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - DAY 4 28
TWO LOCAL POLICE CARS lead Hannibals expensive RENTAL CAR
down the driveway as they pull in front of the cabin. Once
again, all four doors OPEN and Hannibal, Will, Alana and
Abigail step out of the car, taking in the cabin.
A LOCAL DETECTIVE and TWO POLICE OFFICERS remove the CRIME
SCENE TAPE obstructing the door and allow Hannibal, Will,
Alana and Abigail to ENTER. They wait respectfully outside.
29 INT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - DAY 4 29
The DOOR OPENS and Abigail steps inside as Will wads up the
CRIME SCENE TAPE in a loose ball and tosses it aside.
ABIGAIL
He cleaned everything. He said he
was afraid of germs but I guess he
was just afraid of getting caught.
WILL GRAHAM
No one else ever came up here with
your dad? Except you?
(she shakes her head no)
Ever help him make plumbing putty?
ABIGAIL
He made everything by himself.
Plumbing putty, glue, butter. He
sold the pelts on ebay or in town.
He made pillows. Carved knives out
of leg bones. No parts went to
waste. Otherwise it was murder.
(then)
Was feeding them to us, wasnt he?
No one responds immediately, then:
HANNIBAL
Its very likely.
Abigail crosses to the gutting/skinning table.
ABIGAIL
Before he cut my throat, he told me
he killed those girls so he
wouldnt have to kill me.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 31-31A.
(CONTINUED)
ALANA BLOOM
Youre not responsible for anything
your father did, Abigail.
ABIGAIL
If he would have just killed me,
none of those girls would be dead.
PLIP. A single drop of blood falls from the ceiling onto
Abigails cheek. She wipes it off with her fingertip and
stares at it a brief moment before glancing up.
30 INT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - ANTLER ROOM - DAY 4 30
CAMERA PULLS BACK OFF OF Will, Hannibal and Alana as they
stare at something horrifying. Will speaks to his phone:
WILL GRAHAM
I need ERT at the Hobbs Cabin.
REVERSE TO REVEAL
A YOUNG WOMAN hangs naked, impaled on a RACK OF ANTLERS.
Will approaches and slowly lifts the young womans head.
Its MARISSA. Abigail has climbed the stairs behind Hannibal
and Alana. Her eyes go wide, realizing what has happened.
OFF Abigails SCREAM...
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 32.
29 CONTINUED: 29
ACT FOUR
A31 EXT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - ANTLER ROOM - DAY 4 A31
POLICE CARS and POLICE OFFICERS everywhere. CAMERA TRACKS
along the cabin, barely staying ahead of a POLICE OFFICER
unspooling a temporary barricade of YELLOW POLICE TAPE.
Abigail is being comforted by Alana along the edge of the
woods as the CRIME SCENE INVESTIGATORS move in and out of the
HOBBS CABIN. An F.B.I. S.U.V. barrels down the dirt road.
Abigail and Alana watch as JACK CRAWFORD steps out.
CUT TO:
WILL GRAHAM
ANTLERS CURL AROUND CAMERA as CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL
hes staring at Marissas naked corpse. Hannibal behind him.
We are --
31 INT. RUSTIC HUNTING CABIN - ANTLER ROOM - DAY 4 31
Will Graham examines Marissas swollen lip as Hannibal
admires the handiwork of her killer.
WILL GRAHAM
Do you think she knew him?
HANNIBAL
Her killer?
WILL GRAHAM
Abigail. Do you think she knew the
guy down by the stream?
HANNIBAL
Somebodys brother?
WILL GRAHAM
Not somebody. She said he asked
her if she helped her dad take his
sisters lungs while she was alive.
HANNIBAL
The young woman on the stag head.
WILL GRAHAM
Cassie Boyle. She had a brother.
Nicholas. But Garret Jacob Hobbs
didnt kill Cassie Boyle.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 33-34.
(CONTINUED)
With gloved hands and plastic tools, Will respectfully levers
Marissas jaw wide. Wielding a LED FLASHLIGHT with
ALTERNATIVE LIGHT SOURCE, he shines it into Marissas mouth.
HANNIBAL
I know.
(then)
Garret Jacob Hobbs would have
honored every part of her.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 33-34A.
31 CONTINUED: 31
(CONTINUED)
Jack Crawford climbs the stairs, already frustrated.
JACK CRAWFORD
You bring Abigail Hobbs back to
Minnesota to find out if she had
anything to do with her fathers
murders and another girl dies.
Will tries to ignore Jacks frustrations, pushing forward on
the forensic investigation at hand:
WILL GRAHAM
Theres talcum on her lip. He was
wearing gloves when he hit her.
Split the latex on her tooth.
JACK CRAWFORD
You said the Copy Cat was an
intelligent psychopath. No
traceable motive. No patterns. He
would never kill like this again.
WILL GRAHAM
I may have been wrong about that.
JACK CRAWFORD
Garret Jacob Hobbs didnt hit
girls. Why would his Copy Cat?
HANNIBAL
He was provoked.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 35.
31 CONTINUED: (2) 31
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
Scraped his knuckle on her teeth.
Theres foreign tissue and what
could be trace amounts of blood.
JACK CRAWFORD
Where was Abigail Hobbs when this
girl was murdered?
WILL GRAHAM
In her hotel room.
JACK CRAWFORD
Where were you?
WILL GRAHAM
I fell asleep early.
JACK CRAWFORD
So you dont know if she was in her
hotel room or not.
HANNIBAL
We believe Nicholas Boyle murdered
this girl. And his own sister.
JACK CRAWFORD
With or without Abigail Hobbs?
WILL GRAHAM
Without.
JACK CRAWFORD
Did Abigail Hobbs know Cassie
Boyle? Did she know Nicholas Boyle?
WILL GRAHAM
No.
JACK CRAWFORD
Dont think she knows them or you
dont want to think she knows them?
WILL GRAHAM
She said she didnt know them.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 36.
31 CONTINUED: (3) 31
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
Doctor Bloom said Abigail Hobbs has
a penchant for manipulation. Is
she manipulating you, Will?
HANNIBAL
Agent Crawford.
JACK CRAWFORD
You tell me you were wrong about
Hobbs Copy Cat. I want to know
what else you were wrong about.
WILL GRAHAM
Whoever killed the girl in the
field, killed this girl. Im right
about that. He knew exactly how to
mount the body. Wound patterns are
almost identical to Cassie Boyle.
The same design, same humiliation.
HANNIBAL
Abigail Hobbs isnt a killer but
she could be the target of one.
JACK CRAWFORD
(to Hannibal)
I think its time Abigail Hobbs
left home for good. Pack up
whatever she needs to pack up and
get her out of Minnesota. Now.
Hannibal and Will turn to leave, then:
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
Not you, Will. You stay right here.
32-33 OMITTED. 32-33
34 EXT. HOBBS NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT 4 34
The REFLECTION OF POLICE LIGHTS dances across the window
Abigail is looking through as Hannibal drives toward
Abigails home, Alana Bloom in the passenger seat.
POLICE OFFICERS part and remove orange cones to allow
Hannibal to drive into the Hobbs driveway unobstructed,
quickly reforming behind Hannibals rental car to keep the
CIRCUS OF REPORTERS and NEWS VANS and LOOKY-LOOS at bay.
Abigail, Alana and Hannibal get out of the car. Abigail
glances back at the CROWD OF REPORTERS and CAMERA MEN.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 37-37A.
31 CONTINUED: (4) 31
(CONTINUED)
VARIOUS REPORTERS
Abigail. Did you know you were a
cannibal? Abigail. Anything to
say to the families of your
fathers victims? Abigail. Did
your father feed you those girls?
Abigail.
Abigail and her escorts walk toward the Hobbs Residence,
while their eyes regard the Police Line. They finally look
away just as Marissas Mother pushes her way through the
crowd. A POLICEMAN awkwardly tries to hold her back.
Like a paternal shield, Hannibal eases Abigail toward Alana
and steps to intercept Marissas Mother. He bars her path,
grips her arms, his hands soft but firm.
MARISSAS MOTHER
Why come back? Why did you come
back here? Why did you come back?
Abigail cant find her words. Marissas Mother is so wracked
with grief she can barely stand. A Policeman arrives behind
her as Alana moves in, easing her from Hannibals hold.
Freddie steps out of the shadows near the garage.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Abigail.
HANNIBAL
Miss Lounds, youre on the wrong
side of the police line.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
This is my tale to tell. Ive been
covering the Minnesota Shrike long
before you got involved.
But Hannibal and a POLICE OFFICER are already approaching.
The Police Officer grabs Freddie by the elbow, ushering her
away from the Hobbs House and Abigail. She calls out:
FREDDIE LOUNDS (CONTD)
I want to help you tell your story.
You need me now more than ever.
ABIGAIL
I want to talk to her.
ALANA BLOOM
No, you dont. Go inside.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 38.
34 CONTINUED: 34
(CONTINUED)
Abigail reluctantly does as instructed.
ON FREDDIE AND HANNIBAL
Hannibal joins Freddies escort across the Police Line.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 38A.
34 CONTINUED: (2) 34
(CONTINUED)
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Im not the only one lurking about
the Hobbs house peeking in windows.
They really should monitor those
police lines more carefully.
HANNIBAL
Have you seen a young man? Mid20s, ginger hair? Un-washed.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Ill tell you if I saw him if you
tell me why its important.
35 INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - RECREATION ROOM - NIGHT 4 35
Abigail sits on the couch, crying quietly, emotionally
exhausted from the horrors of the day.
INCLUDE A HANDMADE PILLOW
Embroidered across the surface, an image of a DEER walks
across a plane, trimmed in pelt. She clutches it to her
stomach, needing something to hold. Then it dawns on her.
Abigails hands gnarl as she begins pulling at the fabric of
the pillow, digging her fingernails into it. The pillow
begins to rip at the seams and Abigail tears it open.
She begins to shake before CAMERA REVEALS shes removed the
pillows stuffing. WADS and WADS and WADS OF HUMAN HAIR.
Abigails heartbeat POUNDS IN HER EARS, filling her head with
a rhythmic, oppressive TONE. She begins to tremble.
As Abigail reels from this horror, theres A BLUR OF MOTION
unbeknownst to her in front of the sliding glass doors.
A slight BREEZE blows through Abigails hair and SOUND
RETURNS TO NORMAL. She looks up to see the sliding glass
doors are NOW OPEN. Standing in front of her: NICHOLAS BOYLE.
NICK BOYLE
Im not going to hurt you. I got
to talk to someone. I didnt kill
that girl. I swear I didnt.
Abigail instinctively goes still. Then BOLTS. Abigail
attempts to run. Nick Boyle grabs her, spins her around and
forces her against the wall, his hand over her mouth.
NICK BOYLE (CONTD)
I didnt --
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 39.
34 CONTINUED: (3) 34
(CONTINUED)
Nick stiffens suddenly, eyes going wide as CAMERA REVEALS
Abigail has plunged a kitchen knife into him at his sternum.
She pulls it down, gutting him in one horrible motion.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 39A.
35 CONTINUED: 35
(CONTINUED)
Just like her father showed her.
Nick stumbles back, already glassy eyed, and the AWFUL WET
SOUND that follows can only be his entrails.
36 OMITTED. 36
37 OMITTED. 37
38 EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - NIGHT 4 38
Hannibal and Alana return from the MEDIA CIRCUS down the
street, crossing the Police Line surrounding the Hobbs house.
39 INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - FOYER 39
Alana and Hannibal ENTER through the front doors, moving
toward the kitchen.
ALANA BLOOM
Abigail?
Before Alana can reach the kitchen, she sees a BLOODIED
Abigail walking up the stairs, shell-shocked.
ALANA BLOOM (CONTD)
Abigail...
Before Alana can get out another word... WHAM. Hannibal
palms the side of her head from behind, SLAMMING her into the
wall in one move. Alana is instantly knocked out, collapsing
into Hannibals arms as he gently lies her on the ground.
Abigail is stunned by Hannibals sudden brutality but he
reassures her:
HANNIBAL
Shell be alright.
(then)
Show me what happened.
40 INT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - RECREATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS 40
Hannibal cautiously ENTERS, Abigail behind him, to find the
disemboweled corpse of Nick Boyle slumped in the room.
Abigail doesnt weep, she doesnt appear victimized and
broken. She simply stares, inscrutably. Hannibal squats
besides her, putting a steady hand on her shoulder as if to
rouse her out of a deep sleep. His voice is gentle, fatherly.
HANNIBAL
Abigail.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 40.
35 CONTINUED: (2) 35
(CONTINUED)
Abigail is terrified, traumatized by the blood on her hands.
ABIGAIL
He was going to kill me.
HANNIBAL
Was he? This isnt self-defense,
Abigail. You butchered him.
ABIGAIL
I didnt...
HANNIBAL
They will see what you did and they
will see you as an accessory to the
crimes of your father.
ABIGAIL
I wasnt.
HANNIBAL
I can help you, if you ask me to.
At great risk to my career and my
life. You have a choice. You can
tell them you were defending
yourself when you gutted this
man... or we can hide the body.
OFF Abigail, her mind spinning...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 40A.
40 CONTINUED: 40
ACT FIVE
41 EXT. HOBBS RESIDENCE - NIGHT 4 41
CAMERA FINDS Alana in the back of an AMBULANCE, the side of
her head being bandaged. Will sits on the bench across from
her; Jack Crawford stands just outside the doors.
ALANA BLOOM
I dont remember anything. Maybe a
blur out of the corner of my eye,
then a big, fat cut to black.
JACK CRAWFORD
Nicholas Boyle attacked Abigail.
You. Struck Lecter across the back
of head with a fireplace poker.
ALANA BLOOM
Where is Abigail?
WILL GRAHAM
Lecter took her back to the hotel.
JACK CRAWFORD
Scratched Nicholas Boyle before he
ran out the back door. Blood on
her hands matches the tissue we
pulled from Marissa Schuurs mouth.
ALANA BLOOM
He got away?
WILL GRAHAM
He wont go to a hospital. He
knows hell get caught if he does.
JACK CRAWFORD
Well get him one way or another.
ALANA BLOOM
Whats one way?
WILL GRAHAM
Well find his body, bled out. He
already lost a lot of blood.
Frustrated, Will climbs out of the back of the Ambulance.
JACK CRAWFORD
Where are you going?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 41.
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
Im tired, Jack. I want to go home.
OFF Jack watching Will go...
42 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - NIGHT 5 42
Will sits opposite Hannibal, who listens intently.
WILL GRAHAM
Sometimes at night, I leave the
lights on in my little house and
walk across the flat fields. When
I look back from a distance, the
house is like a boat at sea. Its
really the only time I feel safe.
HANNIBAL
Far from shores that would breach
the hull structure of your mind.
What dark waters would they let in?
WILL GRAHAM
My mind has already been breached.
HANNIBAL
You view your mentality as
grotesque but useful.
WILL GRAHAM
Like a chair made of antlers.
HANNIBAL
You stood in the breathing silence
of Garret Jacob Hobbs home. The
very spaces he moved through. Tell
me, Will, did they speak to you?
WILL GRAHAM
With noise and clarity.
HANNIBAL
You could sense his madness. Like
a bloodhound sniffs a shirt.
WILL GRAHAM
I tried so hard to know Garret
Jacob Hobbs. To see him past the
glint of slides and vials, beneath
the lines of police reports,
between the pixels of all those
printed faces of sad, dead girls.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 42.
41 CONTINUED: 41
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
How did you feel seeing Marissa
Schuur impaled in his antler room?
WILL GRAHAM
Guilty.
HANNIBAL
Because you couldnt save her?
WILL GRAHAM
Because I felt like I killed her.
HANNIBAL
A lipless voice accusing you.
WILL GRAHAM
I got so close to him. Sometimes I
felt like we were doing the same
things at various times of the day.
Like I was eating or showering or
sleeping at the same time he was.
HANNIBAL
Even after he was dead?
WILL GRAHAM
Even after he was dead.
HANNIBAL
Like you were becoming him.
WILL GRAHAM
I know who I am. Im not Garret
Jacob Hobbs, Dr. Lecter.
(then)
But I dont think I should see
Abigail anymore. Not for a while.
OFF Hannibal processing his broken friend...
TIME CUT TO:
43 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - LATER THAT NIGHT 5 43
Hannibal works quietly at his desk in his darkened space. He
scribbles in Wills PATIENT NOTEBOOK, adding to observations.
A CREEK from the balcony above him lifts his pen from page.
HANNIBAL
Hello, Abigail.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 43.
42 CONTINUED: 42
(CONTINUED)
CAMERA REVEALS Abigail standing on the second floor library.
ABIGAIL
How did you know it was me?
HANNIBAL
Hospital called. You climbed over
the wall. Where else were you to
go? Home is no longer an option.
(then)
Come down from there.
Abigail climbs down the ladder, taking Hannibals hand for
balance as she steps off the last rungs onto the floor.
ABIGAIL
I dont want to go to sleep.
HANNIBAL
You cant anticipate your dreams,
cant block them, cant repress.
ABIGAIL
I didnt honor any part of him. So
its just murder, isnt it?
HANNIBAL
Most would argue self defense.
ABIGAIL
Then why not tell the truth.
HANNIBAL
Most would argue. There would
still be those who would say you
were taking after your father.
ABIGAIL
Am I?
HANNIBAL
Like your father, you know the
unreality of the people who die.
You understand that they are not
flesh, but light and air and color.
Quick sounds quickly ended when you
change them. You changed Nicholas
Boyle like a burst balloon.
A wave of near-nausea washes over her, she pushes it down.
ABIGAIL
You said I gutted him. Like a deer.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 44.
43 CONTINUED: 43
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
Nicholas Boyle is more important
for the gutting, more important
than the life he clamored after.
ABIGAIL
Youre glad I killed him.
HANNIBAL
What would be the alternative?
That he killed you?
ABIGAIL
I dont know if he was going to.
HANNIBAL
No, you dont.
ABIGAIL
Youre the one who called the
house. You talked to my dad
before... What did you say to him?
HANNIBAL
A simple conversation, ascertaining
if he was home for an interview.
(off her look)
Then why not tell the truth?
ABIGAIL
They think who called the house was
a serial killer. Just like my dad.
HANNIBAL
Im nothing like your father. I
made a mistake. Something easily
misconstrued. Not unlike yourself.
(then)
Ill keep your secret.
ABIGAIL
And Ill keep yours.
Theres a finality to their agreement. A life long pact.
HANNIBAL
Reassuring to recognize when the
bolt of our fates slides home.
(then)
No more climbing walls, Abigail.
THE END
HANNIBAL - PROD. #105 - DBL BLUE Collated 4/27/13 45.
43 CONTINUED: (2) 43
Ceuf
Written by
Jennifer Schuur
Directed by
Peter Medak
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Prod. #104/Unaired Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2012 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Jesse Alexander
Executive Producer: Chris Brancato
HANNIBAL
Ceuf
TEASER
CLOSE ON - A POT ROAST
SLICED yet UNTOUCHED. Dusted with MOLD. A common HOUSEFLY
BUZZES into frame. CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL we are --
1 INT. TURNER HOME - DINING ROOM - DAY 1 1
A grim family dinner. A POT ROAST turned rancid. BUGS
crawling in the POTATOES. And the TURNER FAMILY - MOTHER,
FATHER, and TWO CHILDREN - pitched forward onto the table
from GUNSHOT WOUNDS to their heads. Resultant poolings of
DRIED BLOOD read like inky shadows on the dining table.
BLOOD sprays a FAMILY PORTRAIT on the wall.
At the head of the table sits WILL GRAHAM. He takes a
breath, exhales, then closes his eyes.
A PENDULUM
It swings in the darkness of Will Grahams mind, keeping
rhythm with his heart beat. FWUM. FWUM. FWUM.
ON WILL GRAHAM - WILLS P.O.V.
His eyes are closed. The PENDULUM is now outside his head.
It arcs in front of the grim family dinner, that PALE DEATHLY
PALLOR of those seated at the table become flush with color.
The PENDULUM arcs smoothly across frame - FWUM - shooing
insects from pot roast. FWUM. Aromatic STEAM now rises from
the roast as though it had been set down a moment before.
The PENDULUM swings across the table and the pool of blood in
front of Mrs. Turner SHRINKS and RECEDES back toward her
head. FWUM.
The pendulum swings in front of the table and the Turners
begin to shift, blood receding, slowly sitting up one by one.
FWUM. The BLOOD flies off the FAMILY PORTRAIT.
The crime scene has now been decriminalized in Wills mind.
Will Graham opens his eyes, sitting at the table watching the
Turner Family motionless in the TABLEAU before their deaths.
Will inhales, able to smell the homemade meal. FWUM. FWUM.
The PENDULUM STOPS SWINGING, snapping into place.
(CONTINUED)
Each member of the Turner Family has a full plate in front of
them. In front of Will, an empty place setting.
WILL GRAHAM
Table has been set. Family dinner.
I wasnt invited. I take my seat
at the empty plate. My seat. My
place setting, next to Mrs. Turner.
(then)
I am the guest of honor.
The YOUNGEST TURNER holds a fork in her hand with a small
stalk of broccoli impaled on its tines.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
No one has taken a bite of their
dinner. Except the youngest.
(to Youngest Turner)
Unless you eat your growing foods,
you wont get any dessert.
The Youngest Turner pops the broccoli in her mouth.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
No one is bound. No one leaves the
table. All afraid to move. Even
the little ones behaved themselves.
(then)
I brought my new family to this
home invasion, controlling the
Turners with threats of violence.
CLOSE ON - WILL GRAHAM - WILLS P.O.V.
He stares dispassionately into middle distance.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
Threats that turned to action.
THREE SIMULTANEOUS GUN SHOTS ring out in the dining room.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
The Turner Family is executed
simultaneously with the exception
of Mrs. Turner. Who dies last.
(then)
This is my design.
POP WIDE - WILLS P.O.V.
The Turner Family is now face down in their plates, with the
exception of Mrs. Turner -- who stares directly at Will.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 2.
1 CONTINUED: 1
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
I shoot Mrs. Turner, gun against
the canvas of her forehead.
Looking her directly in the eye
when I pull the trigger.
ON THE BACK OF MRS. TURNERS HEAD - WILLS P.O.V.
BANG. It rocks violently back TOWARD CAMERA before swinging
forward into her plate, CLEARING FRAME and REVEALING Will
leaning across the table holding a smoking gun.
OMNISCIENT P.O.V.
CAMERA REVEALS JACK CRAWFORD standing in the dining room
doorway, watching Will -- who now wears rubber gloves and is
no longer holding a gun, but his arm is still raised.
A moment, then:
JACK CRAWFORD
What do you see, Will?
WILL GRAHAM
Family values.
JACK CRAWFORD
Whose family values?
OFF Will unable to answer that question...
CUT TO:
2 INT. WILL GRAHAMS HOUSE - LIVING ROOM/BEDROOM - DAY 1 2
Wills pack of misfit DOGS sniff and wander the house.
Suddenly, they all go still. Tails motionless, heads turns
to observe an OFFSCREEN PRESENCE with curious interest.
ON HANNIBAL LECTER
He appears at the front door, Wills house lit up behind him.
Holds up LINKS OF SAUSAGES. Dinner time.
3 INT. WILL GRAHAMS HOUSE - LIVING ROOM/BEDROOM - LATER 3
Dogs occupied, Hannibal stands before a cluttered BOOKSHELF.
He scans the bindings, pulls one out for a better look: an
instruction manual on fly fishing. He raises an eyebrow.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 3.
1 CONTINUED: (2) 1
(CONTINUED)
CLOSE ON - A DRESSER
A DRAWER glides open. Hannibal inspects a pile of OLD TSHIRTS looking for clues to Wills past -- instead he only
finds white t-shirts, a dozen of them neatly folded.
Telling in its own way.
CLOSE ON - A BOAT MOTOR
Unceremoniously displayed in a partially disassembled state.
Through Wills glasses, Hannibal picks up the pieces of the
disassembled BOAT MOTOR and puts them together effortlessly.
4 INT. WILL GRAHAMS HOUSE - OFFICE - LATER 4
Hannibal enters to find Wills FLY TYING GEAR arranged on the
table. There is a RACK of COMPLETED FLIES. A VICE, LAMP,
MAGNIFYING GLASS, YARNS, THREADS, FEATHERS, and HOOKS.
Hannibal sits at the station, admires Wills handiwork, such
delicate lures for catching fish.
Hannibal applies himself to tying off an incomplete SALMON
FLY, expertly using the TOOLS of Wills hobby -- THREAD,
BOBBIN, SCISSORS, PLIERS. His surgeons precision in play.
Having completed his work, Hannibal admires the FLY and HOOK.
He presses his THUMB gently against the pointed BARB, and
keeps the pressure on until he draws a drop of BLOOD.
Without lingering on his act, Hannibal sucks the lone DROP
from his thumb-tip. The sound is not unlike a quick KISS.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 4.
3 CONTINUED: 3
ACT ONE
5 EXT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - EVENING 1 5
The sprawling grounds of an elegant, self-funded psychiatric
hospital. A CHYRON tells us we are --
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND
6 INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL HOBBS ROOM - EVENING 1 6
A private patient suite with many of the comforts of home.
ON ABIGAIL HOBBS
She gazes in the mirror. The bandages on her neck have been
removed and we see her fresh, angry SCARS above her white
slip. She runs her fingers across the wound before tying a
scarf around her neck to conceal it from the world.
ABIGAIL (V.O.)
I can hide what happened to me. All
I need is a scarf to pass. Or a
turtleneck, the right high collar.
7 EXT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - GROUNDS - EVENING 1 7
Abigail walks with ALANA BLOOM, a casual therapy session.
ALANA BLOOM
Part of the process of recovery.
And hiding what happened to you
defeats the purpose of being here.
Sharing will help normalize.
ABIGAIL
Im not normal. Not anymore.
ALANA BLOOM
What happened to you isnt normal.
ABIGAIL
Some of these women arent even
sharing. They speak in little girl
voices telling everyone what was
done to them and how they hurt
without saying a word about it.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 5.
(CONTINUED)
ALANA BLOOM
Certain traumas can arrest vocal
development. Victims can sometimes
broadcast victimhood involuntarily.
ABIGAIL
(adjusts her scarf)
Not me.
ALANA BLOOM
Thats not necessarily true. Your
victimhood has a high profile,
thanks to Freddie Lounds.
ABIGAIL
Im a celebrity victim. Someone
here asked me if I kept my stained
clothes. Like I was that girl who
did oral with President Clinton.
ALANA BLOOM
How did that make you feel?
ABIGAIL
Like I wanted to go home. But I
dont have a home anymore, do I?
ALANA BLOOM
You will. Ill help you find it.
ABIGAIL
Wouldve been my moms birthday
yesterday. We were gonna climb
Eagle Mountain to celebrate.
Highest point in Minnesota, but
its not really that high. Less
than three hours to summit. You
can see Lake Superior from there.
ALANA BLOOM
We could go there and scatter your
mothers ashes, if you like.
ABIGAIL
I would like that.
ALANA BLOOM
Abigail, I want you to give the
support groups another chance.
ABIGAIL
Support groups are sucking the life
out of me through a narrow straw.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 6.
7 CONTINUED: 7
(CONTINUED)
ALANA BLOOM
Isolating yourself can suck just as
hard and through an even narrower
straw. You have to find someone to
relate to in this experience.
ON HANNIBAL LECTER
He scribbles in a PATIENT NOTEBOOK. We are --
8 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - NIGHT 1 8
Hannibal looks up as the BUZZER on his desk RINGS.
9 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 9
Hannibal OPENS the door to find Alana Bloom waiting for him.
ALANA BLOOM
Hi.
HANNIBAL
(wry)
Do you have an appointment?
ALANA BLOOM
Do you have a beer?
10 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER 10
Alana clinks her beer bottle to Hannibals wine glass.
HANNIBAL
Interesting day with Abigail?
ALANA BLOOM
The grief work, the trauma
intervention, its all on course.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 7.
7 CONTINUED: (2) 7
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
But I think she may be wrestling
with a low-grade depression.
Drolly eyeing the large swig Alana takes of her beer --
HANNIBAL
She?
ALANA BLOOM
Nothing wrong with a little selfmedication, right, Doctor?
(then)
Professional neutrality be damned,
its hard to see such a bright,
young girl go so adrift.
HANNIBAL
One can certainly lose perspective
tucked away for weeks in an ivory
tower. Perhaps its time Abigails
released from clinical treatment.
ALANA BLOOM
Released where? Back into the wild?
HANNIBAL
Spending each day immersed in
tragedy may be doing more harm than
good. Abigail should be out in the
world finding her footing, giving
her the confidence to move forward.
ALANA
Abigail is in no condition to
tackle real-world issues like where
shes going to live, what to do
about school, hell, where her next
meal is going to come from.
HANNIBAL
Im not suggesting abandonment.
ALANA BLOOM
You and Will both feel responsible
but do you really think its wise
to insert yourselves in her life?
HANNIBAL
I am qualified to help her.
ALANA BLOOM
Youre the sanest man I know.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 8.
10 CONTINUED: 10
ALANA BLOOM (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
I would agree.
ALANA
You saved her life. But it doesnt
change the fact that Abigails been
through what shes been through.
HANNIBAL
Was there when she went through it.
ALANA
I cant tell you what to do. But if
you insist on taking a personal
interest in her welfare, then youd
better understand, you cant walk
away, no matter what the outcome.
HANNIBAL
We break it, we buy it?
ALANA
This is a girl who was very
attached to her parents. Overly
so, in fact. You stepping in as a
surrogate would only be a crutch.
Abigail needs to work things out
for herself in a safe, clinical
environment. That will give her
the confidence to move forward.
Seeing Alana isnt about to budge, Hannibal bows his head.
HANNIBAL
I defer to the passion of my
esteemed colleague.
ALANA
Have soapbox, will travel.
HANNIBAL
Passions good. Gets blood pumping.
OFF Hannibal appreciating the flush in Alanas cheek...
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 9.
10 CONTINUED: (2) 10
11 INT. TURNER HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT 1 11
Jack Crawford strides past the few LOCAL POLICE who control
the scene as his TEAM gathers evidence --
A CHYRON reminds us we are --
BANGOR, MAINE
-- Jimmy Price stands, PHOTOGRAPHING the dinner table of
death. Brian Zellar is in a CROUCH, checking WOUND ANGLES.
Beverly Katz collects FINGER PRINTS from a GLASS of SUNNY-D.
Jack finds Will at a remove, looking at FAMILY PHOTOGRAPHS.
JACK CRAWFORD
Karen and Roger Turner. Childhood
sweethearts. Owned a successful
Real Estate business. Pillars of
the community. Three children.
WILL GRAHAM
Minus one.
JACK CRAWFORD
A son, Jesse, disappeared last
year. Last confirmed sighting had
him boarding an RV at a rest area
on route forty-seven. Possible
runaway, probable abduction.
WILL GRAHAM
Or both.
JACK CRAWFORD
Hundreds of tips, but not a single
one held up past lunchtime. When
misery rains, she pours.
This sentiment is counter to the SMILING FACES in the PHOTOS.
WILL GRAHAM
Holidays, vacations, milestones...
never reveals the whole picture.
JACK CRAWFORD
Who wants to fill their scrapbook
with arguments and dirty laundry?
WILL GRAHAM
False faces in family portraits.
Layers and layers of lies betrayed
by a sad glint in a childs eyes.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 10.
(CONTINUED)
ON JIMMY PRICE
He SNAPS a PHOTO of the DINNER TABLE, commenting --
JIMMY PRICE
Norman Rockwell with a bullet.
JACK CRAWFORD
Any signs of forced entry?
BEVERLY KATZ
Perimeter is clean of scoring and
rupture. No broken windows or torn
screens. Its all sealed up tight.
JACK CRAWFORD
They probably rang the doorbell.
BEVERLY KATZ
Ive got bullet holes on the upper
sections of the wall and ceiling.
JACK CRAWFORD
Pull the slugs for ballistics.
BEVERLY KATZ
If they arent frangible, it
shouldnt be a problem.
BRIAN ZELLER
Those elevated termination points
match what I see on these bodies --
Zellar moves toward the table, indicating what he means --
BRIAN ZELLAR
-- angled cranial impacts, coupled
with acute exit wounds and conical
spray, the shooter was firing from
low to high, probably crouched.
JIMMY PRICE
Or maybe they were Hobbits.
This odd information strikes a chord of epiphany for Will, he
MOVES BACK toward that collection of FAMILY PHOTOGRAPHS.
WILL GRAHAM
How long since Jesse was abducted?
JACK CRAWFORD
Just over a year.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 11.
11 CONTINUED: 11
(CONTINUED)
Returning to the stack of photos, Will stops on one in
particular: a much younger version of the missing boy.
THE PHOTO
Six-year-old JESSE TURNER holds a STUFFED OCTOPUS, one of its
dangling arms in his mouth. His mother sweetly looks on.
The PHOTO CLEARS FRAME REVEALING we are now --
12 INT. B.A.U - MORGUE - DAY 2 12
The CORPSES of MOTHER TURNER, FATHER TURNER, and their TWO
CHILDREN (in body bags or covered in sheets) are presented on
slabs for inspection.
Jack faces Zellar, Price, Katz, and Graham. Hes like a
demanding father, presiding over his children as they present
what theyve just learned at school. Will stands slightly
apart, not quite fitting into this surrogate family.
BRIAN ZELLAR
Im glad we didnt have guns in my
house. I wouldve shot my sisters
to get them out of the bathroom.
BEVERLY KATZ
I liked having a big family.
JIMMY PRICE
My parents gave me a gift. A twin.
Why wouldnt you want two of me?
BRIAN ZELLER
(to Will)
Mustve been an only child.
WILL GRAHAM
Why do you say that?
BRIAN ZELLER
Family friction is a catalyst for
personality development.
An odd remark, but Beverly swoops in to take the sting away.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 12.
11 CONTINUED: (2) 11
(CONTINUED)
BEVERLY KATZ
I was the oldest, so all the
friction rolled down hill.
JACK CRAWFORD
The attention and responsibilities
given to firstborn children prime
them for future success.
BEVERLY KATZ
Here I am. Livin the dream.
WILL GRAHAM
Any favoring of another sibling
could undermine the oldests
ability to handle stress.
BEVERLY KATZ
My baby sister got away with
murder. She had em all fooled.
JIMMY PRICE
I thought middle were the problems.
BRIAN ZELLAR
The middle is the sweet spot.
WILL GRAHAM
Always trying to figure out where
they fit in. Forces them to use
different strategies navigating up
and down developmental spectrums.
They can be great politicians.
(then)
Or lousy ones.
Jack Crawford, who has been studying the crime scene photos
as he looks over each of the bodies, observes:
JACK CRAWFORD
All of the victims have defensive
wounds. Except for Mrs. Turner.
Jack hands Will the crime scene photos of Mrs. Turner.
WILL GRAHAM
Theres acceptance in her body
position. Forgiveness, even.
Will realizes that he missed something that Jack didnt.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 13.
12 CONTINUED: 12
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
(prodding)
What kind of victim forgives her
killer at the moment of her death?
Never taking his eyes off Jesses mother --
WILL GRAHAM
A mother.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 14.
12 CONTINUED: (2) 12
ACT TWO
13 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - NIGHT 2 13
Hannibal sits opposite Will, smiling warmly before asking:
HANNIBAL
Tell me about your mother.
WILL GRAHAM
Thats some lazy psychiatry, Dr.
Lecter. Low hanging fruit.
HANNIBAL
I suspect that fruit is on a high
branch, very difficult to reach.
WILL GRAHAM
Sos my mother. I never knew her.
HANNIBAL
An interesting place to start.
WILL GRAHAM
Tell me about your mother. Lets
start there. Quid pro quo.
A fan of the language, Hannibal enjoys Wills use of Latin.
HANNIBAL
Both my parents died when I was
very young. The proverbial orphan
until I was adopted by my Uncle
Robertas when I was 16.
Will considers that, understanding Hannibal a little more
clearly than before -- or so he thinks.
WILL GRAHAM
You have orphan in common with
Abigail Hobbs.
HANNIBAL
I think well discover you and I
have a great deal in common with
Abigail. Shes already demonstrated
an aptitude for the psychological.
(then)
Quid pro quo.
Will is unwilling to return the volley.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 15.
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
Theres something so foreign about
family. Like an ill-fitting suit.
Never connected to the concept.
HANNIBAL
You created a family for yourself.
WILL GRAHAM
I created a pack of strays. Thanks
for feeding them while I was away.
Hannibal nods his youre welcome, then:
HANNIBAL
I was referring to Abigail Hobbs.
Hannibal lets Will get used to that idea, then:
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Tell me about the Turner Family.
Were they affluent? Well to do?
WILL GRAHAM
They lived like they had money.
HANNIBAL
Did your family have money, Will?
WILL GRAHAM
We were poor. I followed my father
from the boat yards in Biloxi and
Greenville to lake boats on Erie.
HANNIBAL
Always the new boy at school?
Always the stranger?
WILL GRAHAM
Yes.
HANNIBAL
Harboring a half-buried grudge
against the rich?
WILL GRAHAM
Arent we all.
HANNIBAL
What grudge was Mrs. Turners
killer harboring against her?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 16.
13 CONTINUED: 13
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
Motherhood.
HANNIBAL
Not motherhood, a perversion of it.
A BEAUTIFUL PLATTER OF BLOOD SAUSAGE
We are --
14 INT. HANNIBALS HOME - DINING ROOM - NIGHT 2 14
Hannibal dishes a generous portion of sausage onto Jack
Crawfords plate. Jack fills his lungs with the aroma.
HANNIBAL
A modified Bouidin Noir from AliBabs Gastronomie Pratique.
JACK CRAWFORD
Ali-Bab?
HANNIBAL
An engineer who, after losing his
sense of appetite, spent the
remainder of his life cooking for
his brother. He developed a theory
that great cultures meet their ends
solely as a result of their
cuisines becoming too decadent.
JACK CRAWFORD
Youll meet your end if my wife
catches you fattening up my liver.
HANNIBAL
Perfect for foie gras.
(then)
You promised to deliver your wife
to my dinner table.
JACK CRAWFORD
Weve got to polish our act. Cant
have you diagnosing our marital
problems in one fell swoop.
(then)
What am I about to put in my mouth?
HANNIBAL
Rabbit.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 17.
13 CONTINUED: (2) 13
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
(digging in)
Should have hopped faster.
HANNIBAL
Yes, he should have. But
fortunately for us, he did not.
Jack takes a bite and savors the rich taste of blood sausage.
JACK CRAWFORD
Our friend Will seemed haunted
today. More than usual. Thought
maybe it was the nature of the
case. A murdered family.
HANNIBAL
I doubt the age and relationship of
the victims hes investigating
would affect his professionalism.
JACK CRAWFORD
Then what would?
HANNIBAL
We dont know what nightmares lie
coiled beneath Wills pillow.
JACK CRAWFORD
We dont? You should.
HANNIBAL
The first small bond to a killer
itches and stings like a leech,
that may be the distraction.
JACK CRAWFORD
Maybe its not such a small bond.
Children killing other children.
Not an unfamiliar notion for Will.
HANNIBAL
You still suspect Abigail Hobbs in
her fathers crimes.
JACK CRAWFORD
Doesnt matter what I suspect. It
matters what I can prove. Ms. Hobbs
has been absolved of any crime.
HANNIBAL
Yet?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 18.
14 CONTINUED: 14
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
The nightmare under Wills pillow
may be that he was wrong about her.
HANNIBAL
A more innocuous theory.
JACK CRAWFORD
Please.
HANNIBAL
Children transport us to our
childhoods. Will may feel the tug
of life before the FBI, before you.
Simpler times in boat yards with
dad. That life is an anchor
streamed behind him in heavy
weather. He needs an anchor, Jack.
ON A PAIR OF BOYS SNEAKERS
They have WELL-WORN SOLES, a DUCT-TAPED RIP in the canvas
upper, a DOODLE on the rubber toe cap. We are --
15 INT. B.A.U. - FORENSICS LAB - DAY 3 15
BEVERLY KATZ inspects the sneakers. Jimmy Price dusts for
prints at a nearby table, everything from VIDEO GAME
CONTROLLERS to a FLUSH HANDLE from a toilet. Hes currently
dusting a SODA POP can collected from an evidence crate.
JIMMY PRICE
Got the blurred print of a nose off
a soda-pop can. Someone could use
a Biore blackhead strip.
BEVERLY KATZ
One pair of size-six sneakers from
the Turner house. Tread on left
indicates uneven leg length.
JIMMY PRICE
Is that unusual?
INCLUDE THE MORGUE BAY
Brian Zeller works on the FOUR BODIES of the TURNER FAMILY,
discreetly covered by sheets.
BRIAN ZELLER
Not in a 12 year-old. Growth plates
are all out of whack.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 19.
14 CONTINUED: (2) 14
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
One foots bigger than another.
One leg is longer. Puberty is in
full effect.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 19A.
15 CONTINUED: 15
BRIAN ZELLER (CONT'D)
(CONTINUED)
JIMMY PRICE
Ill say. Lived in the Turners
house for a week after they were
dead. Ordered pizza and Pay Per
View Movies. Porn. Lots of porn.
BEVERLY KATZ
Theres a strong bond of aggressive
and sexual drives that occurs in
sadists at an early age.
BRIAN ZELLER
I didnt turn out to be a sadist.
BEVERLY KATZ
How did Jesse Turner turn out? No
one has seen him in almost a year.
BRIAN ZELLER
Ive extrapolated present height
and weight from abduction stats.
Brian Zeller measures the corpses of the other Turner kids.
BRIAN ZELLER (CONTD)
Even with the usual growth spurt
between eleven and twelve, hed be
at most around four-and-a-half feet
tall. Maybe eighty pounds.
Jimmy dusts a VIDEO GAME CONTROLLER from an EVIDENCE BOX,
pulling prints and scanning them into the COMPUTER.
JIMMY PRICE
Gods gift to trace analysts.
Gorgeous fingerprints all over
these things. No matches, but
theyre gorgeous. Nothing
forecasts violence like a first
person shooter.
BEVERLY KATZ
Isolated 7 pairs of shoe prints,
filtered out the Turners, including
Jesses, so were down to three
UNSUBS. Sneakers are a size 7, a 3-
and-a-half and a boys 11.
BRIAN ZELLER
The Lost Boys.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 20.
15 CONTINUED: (2) 15
(CONTINUED)
Jimmy Price studies the POINT COMPARISON of the FINGER PRINT
he just fed into the COMPUTER. Several DOTS of SIMILARITIES
light up across the print grid -- a match.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 20A.
15 CONTINUED: (3) 15
(CONTINUED)
JIMMY PRICE
Just found one of them.
16 OMITTED. 16
17 INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - DAY 3 17
Will Graham stands in front of a classroom full of F.B.I.
TRAINEES, mid-lecture on an as-yet unexplored killer.
WILL GRAHAM
Most of the time in sexual assaults
the bite mark has a livid spot in
the center, a suck bruise. In
certain cases, they do not. For
some killers, biting may be a
fighting pattern as much as sexual
behavior.
Jack Crawford ENTERS crossing to the front of the hall.
JACK CRAWFORD
Class dismissed. Everybody out.
(off their hesitation)
What did I just say?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 21.
15 CONTINUED: (4) 15
(CONTINUED)
The F.B.I. TRAINEES gather their books and quickly EXIT.
WILL GRAHAM
Youre making it difficult to
provide an education, Jack.
JACK CRAWFORD
We found a match for a set of
prints pulled from the Turner
house. They belong to Connor Frist,
a 13 year-old from Huntsville.
WILL GRAHAM
Another kid?
JACK CRAWFORD
Another missing kid. Vanished 10
months ago. Case never solved.
WILL GRAHAM
Good news, Mr. and Mrs. Frist.
Your sons alive. Bad news, hes a
suspect in four murders.
JACK CRAWFORD
Four so far.
WILL GRAHAM
How many kids in the Frist family?
JACK CRAWFORD
Three. Same as the Turners.
WILL GRAHAM
Oh, god.
JACK CRAWFORD
Were ready when you are. And
youre ready right now. Lets go.
WILL GRAHAM
Were ready?
JACK CRAWFORD
We have a Gulfstream standing by at
Andrews Airforce Base. Borrowed it
from Interior. The basic lab stuff
will be on it. Well be there
within the hour if we leave now.
WILL GRAHAM
You expecting a crime scene?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 22.
17 CONTINUED: 17
A CHRISTMAS CARD
A Norman Rockwell-style Holiday Greeting Card featuring the
FRIST FAMILY gathered around the Christmas Tree.
BURL IVES (NEEDLE DROP)
Have a holly, jolly Christmas.
The CHRISTMAS CARD lowers, clearing FRAME REVEALING we are --
18 INT. FRIST HOME - LIVING ROOM - DAY 3 18
Unseasonably decorated for the Christmas holiday. Through
the artificially frosted windows, there is a flurry of
movement... armed, DARK-CLAD FIGURES creeping in swiftly and
silently, moving along the outside of the house.
BURL IVES (NEEDLE DROP)
Its the best time of the year. I
dont know if therell be snow...
CLOSE ON - MP3 PLAYER
A GLOVED FINGER ENTERS FRAME and hits the PAUSE BUTTON,
silencing Burl Ives and his misplaced holiday cheer.
POP WIDE
Jack Crawford has turned off the music, surveying the scene
with Will Graham, Zeller, Price and Katz at his side as DARKCLAD FBI AGENTS fan through the home, weapons at the ready.
REVERSE
A well-decorated and colorfully illumined CHRISTMAS TREE
reaches to the high ceiling. DOZENS OF CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
ring the bottom of the pine. Most have been roughly
unwrapped and hastily opened, shredded by feral kinder.
Several other scattered presents have remained untouched.
CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL the FRIST FAMILY, MOTHER, FATHER
and TWO CHILDREN gathered around the tree in their PAJAMAS
and ROBES, partially concealed by tattered and torn gift
wrap. All dead. And have been for some time.
The FAMILY DOG trots out from behind the Christmas tree,
carrying a chewed-off arm in its mouth. The dog drops the
arm at Wills feet.
WILL GRAHAM
Merry Christmas.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 23.
ACT THREE
CLOSE ON - MR. FRISTS CORPSE
Brian Zeller casually examines the partially eaten tissue of
Mr. Frists throat.
BRIAN ZELLER
At least the dog didnt starve.
We are --
19 INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY 4 19
CAMERA FINDS Will Graham, Zeller, Price and Katz examining
the DEAD FRIST FAMILY, Mother, Father and two children
(discreetly covered) as Jack Crawford looks on.
JACK CRAWFORD
Mr. Frist and the children killed
first... Mrs. Frist saved for last.
Same as the Turners.
WILL GRAHAM
Not exactly the same. The boys
didnt stay. Something went wrong.
BEVERLY KATZ
Not a single present under the tree
for Mrs. Frist. Who doesnt buy
their mom a Christmas present?
WILL GRAHAM
Took her presents, took her
motherhood.
JACK CRAWFORD
Who was the additional corpse in
the fireplace?
INCLUDE THE EDGE OF A CHARRED SKULL, FEATURING --
INCINERATED FABRIC, FEATHERS in the ashes around the skull.
WILL GRAHAM
(without looking)
Id say Connor Frist.
ON MRS. FRIST'S CORPSE
Zeller and Katz inspect. Just below her hairline, a puckered
entry wound stands out against her smooth, pale skin.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 24.
(CONTINUED)
BRIAN ZELLER
Angled cranial impact means the
shooter fired from low to high.
JACK CRAWFORD
Shooting her once wasnt enough.
Zeller uses his gloved hands to part Mrs. Frist's hair above
the entry wound revealing dried, matted blood.
BRIAN ZELLER
Bullet deflected off the curvature
of her skull, and travelled beneath
the scalp to its final resting spot
at the base of her neck.
JACK CRAWFORD
It didn't kill her.
BEVERLY KATZ
Hydrostatic shock of shell hitting
skull wouldve caused brain damage.
WILL GRAHAM
Her body went into convulsions.
Conner Frist went into a panic. He
had been prepped to shoot his
mother, but not watch her suffer.
Zeller turns Mrs. Frist's head to the side revealing another
entry wound that is clearly bigger.
BRIAN ZELLER
Shot her again to put her out of
her misery. Different gun.
BEVERLY KATZ
Larger caliber.
JIMMY PRICE
So someone else shot Connors mom.
JACK CRAWFORD
Connor couldn't put his panic back
in the bottle. So he was shot too.
WILL GRAHAM
In anger. By the different gun.
With the larger caliber. A gun that
wasnt used at the Turner house
where everything went as planned.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 25.
19 CONTINUED: 19
(CONTINUED)
Beverly moves to the burnt corpse and pulls a charred feather
from his skull.
BEVERLY KATZ
Goose down. There was a pillow
under his head.
Jack tries to puzzle it out.
JACK CRAWFORD
Connor Frist is murdered because he
cant bring himself to finish off
his mother, but afterwards he's
treated with compassion and given a
ceremonial send-off to the
hereafter.
WILL GRAHAM
Whoever shot him... disowned him.
20 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - EVENING 4 20
The DOOR OPENS and Hannibal smiles warmly and greets Will:
HANNIBAL
Good evening. Please come in.
21 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER 21
Hannibal studies Will and the WRAPPED GIFT on his lap.
HANNIBAL
Has Christmas come early? Or late?
Will stares, then shakes off the murderous association.
WILL GRAHAM
It was for Abigail.
HANNIBAL
Was?
WILL GRAHAM
Thought better of it. Wasnt
thinking clearly. I was upset when
I bought it. Maybe still am.
HANNIBAL
You bare gifts when youre angry?
WILL GRAHAM
Better gifts than teeth.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 26.
19 CONTINUED: (2) 19
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
What is it?
WILL GRAHAM
Magnifying glass. Fly tying gear.
HANNIBAL
Teaching her how to fish. Her
father taught her how to hunt.
WILL GRAHAM
Thats why I thought better of it.
HANNIBAL
Feeling paternal, Will?
WILL GRAHAM
Arent you?
HANNIBAL
Yes. Our good friend Dr. Bloom has
advised against taking too personal
an interest in Abigails welfare.
You break it, you bought it.
WILL GRAHAM
Cant break whats already broken.
HANNIBAL
Cant you?
(then)
Tell me. Why were you so angry?
WILL GRAHAM
Im angry about these boys. Im
angry cause I know when I find
them, I cant help them. I cant
give them back what they gave away.
HANNIBAL
Family.
WILL GRAHAM
Yes.
HANNIBAL
Freddie Lounds has coined these
young killers the Blood Brothers.
WILL GRAHAM
We call them the Lost Boys.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 27.
21 CONTINUED: 21
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
Abigail is lost, too. Perhaps it
is our responsibility, yours and
mine, to help her find her way.
A22 INT. DINER - DAY 5 A22
EVA sits at a back booth with four boys - C.J. LINCOLN (14),
JESSE TURNER (12), and CHRIS OHALLORAN (10). Each boy has
ordered a MILKSHAKE, but unlike the others, Chris hasnt
touched his. Eva seems distant, distracted.
C.J. LINCOLN
Dont be sad about Connor.
EVA
Connor didnt choose us. He tried
but I guess I didnt do a very good
job being his mother.
C.J. LINCOLN
Its not your fault.
EVA
I couldnt make him understand.
The family youre born into isnt
really family. Those are just
people you didnt choose. You have
to make family. Thats what were
doing. Were making our family.
Chris OHalloran works up the courage to ask:
CHRIS OHALLORAN
What happened to your family?
C.J. LINCOLN
Were her family.
CHRIS OHALLORAN
I meant your other family.
EVA
I had a brother like you boys have
brothers. He showed me that the
family you think is family is just
a stepping stone to real family.
C.J. LINCOLN
You have to step on that stone.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 28.
21 CONTINUED: (2) 21
(CONTINUED)
EVA
And then you have to step over it.
Like C.J. did. And Jesse. But
Connor, he couldnt make the leap.
(then)
You feeling okay, sweetie?
C.J. LINCOLN
Hes fine.
EVA
C.J.
With C.J. put back in his place, Eva looks around at her
little brood and smiles brightly at Chris OHalloran.
EVA (CONTD)
You should be excited to go back
home. Even if it is to say goodbye.
Were your family now, Christopher.
And you can only have one family.
CUT TO:
A LAPTOP COMPUTER SCREEN FILLS FRAME
TWO AMBER ALERT PHOTOS appear side-by-side on screen: one of
Jesse Turner, the other of Connor Frist -- the first time
weve seen an image of the second boy. We are --
22 INT. F.B.I. ACADEMY - LECTURE HALL - DAY 5 22
Will sits alone at the table in front of the room. Beverly
enters. Studying the photos of the two boys, Will doesnt
look up. Not much can distract him when hes concentrating.
BEVERLY
Ever heard of Willard Wigan? Hes
this artist who does micro
sculptures, like putting the Obamas
in the eye of a needle. Hes so
focused that he can work between
beats of his heart. I guess
archers do that too, right?
WILL
Hm?
BEVERLY KATZ
What are you looking at?
Beverly moves around to see what has captured Wills
attention. Its only now that he acknowledges her presence.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 28A.
A22 CONTINUED: A22
(CONTINUED)
WILL
(re: the boys photos)
These kids are both small.
Underweight for their age.
BEVERLY KATZ
You think theres a connection?
WILL
Im thinking possible ADHD
diagnoses for both boys. Ritalin,
Focalin, any medication containing
methylphenidate can affect appetite
and slow long-term growth in kids.
A beat as both co-workers inspect the two photos. Then --
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 28B.
22 CONTINUED: 22
(CONTINUED)
BEVERLY KATZ
Another thing about Willard Wigan?
He had a lonely childhood. He used
his tiny sculptures as an escape.
WILL
Whos Willard Wigan?
Beverly smiles.
BEVERLY KATZ
Price got a hit from the ballisticsmatching program hes been running
on the two family murders. The
bullet that put Mrs. Frist out of
her misery matches three used in a
murder in Fort Smith, Arkansas a
year ago. Mother of a 13-year-old
boy shot to death with her own gun.
WILL GRAHAM
13-year-old milk carton material?
AN AMBER ALERT PHOTO OF C.J. LINCOLN
Hes dark-haired, thin, and wears a smirk.
JACK CRAWFORD
C.J. Lincoln disappeared six months
before his mothers murder and
hasnt been heard from since.
We are --
23 INT. B.A.U. - BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE SERVICES - DAY 5 23
The picture of C.J. Lincoln is displayed on a MONITOR, along
with his JUVENILE RAP SHEET. Jack, Will, Zeller, Price and
Katz are gathered around the monitor studying C.J. Lincoln.
WILL GRAHAM
He has none of the characteristics
of a sociopath or a sadist.
JACK CRAWFORD
No shoplifting, no malicious
destruction of property, no assault
and no battery. He was kind to
animals for gods sake.
WILL GRAHAM
But the firearm says were looking
at Peter Pan to our Lost Boys.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 29.
22 CONTINUED: (2) 22
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
It requires a sophisticated level
of manipulation to convince boys to
kill their families in cold blood.
WILL GRAHAM
Kindness to animals doesnt suggest
that kind of sophistication.
JACK CRAWFORD
Hes older, been out in the world.
Couldve picked up a few tricks.
24 INT. CONVENIENCE STORE - DAY 5 24
C.J. Lincoln watches a WOMAN in her 40s named EVA with her
YOUNG BOY of about 10 named CHRIS. Chris is distant and
numb, perhaps a developmentally challenged child. Eva
fumbles through her purse standing at the CHECK-OUT COUNTER.
Chris turns to see he is being watched.
C.J. Lincolns cold, dead stare cuts right through Chris, who
shrinks from the other boys gaze. After a moment, Eva looks
up from her purse and realizes:
EVA
Oh, honey.
Eva begins clutching napkins off the counter next to the
spinning hot dog warmer, sopping up the urine from the floor
as she apologizes profusely to the CONVENIENCE STORE CLERK.
EVA (CONTD)
Im so sorry. Hes never done this
before. Ill pay for the napkins.
CONVENIENCE STORE CLERK
Dont worry about it.
Eva feels Chriss forehead, putting her cheek to his cheek to
check his temperature.
EVA
Are you feeling okay? You have a
fever? You dont feel warm.
Clerk hands her a plastic bag for the urine-stained napkins.
EVA (CONTD)
Thank you. Im so embarrassed.
(to Chris)
But you shouldnt be embarrassed.
This happens with little bladders.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 30.
23 CONTINUED: 23
(CONTINUED)
He doesnt talk but his eyes drift back to C.J. Lincoln, who
is no longer standing in the Convenience Store.
25 OMITTED. 25
A26 INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL - ABIGAIL HOBBS ROOM - DAY 5 A26
Abigail studies Hannibal as he waits by the door.
ABIGAIL
I dont think Im allowed to leave
after I climbed the fence.
HANNIBAL
Ive made arrangements. You could
say Im one of your guardians.
ABIGAIL
Where are we going?
HANNIBAL
Home. My home. I thought you
might enjoy it if I cooked for you.
Ill have you back before bedtime.
ABIGAIL
Can I spend the night? I dont like
sleeping here. I have bad dreams.
HANNIBAL
You have to sleep in your own bed.
ABIGAIL
This isnt my bed.
HANNIBAL
Tell me about your bad dreams.
ABIGAIL
I had one where Marissa is sending
me picture texts. Like crime scene
photos. Of Nicholas Boyle, gutted.
HANNIBAL
How you left him.
ABIGAIL
Even though shes dead, Im afraid
Marissas gonna tell everyone I
killed him and theyll think Im
just like my dad. Sorry. I cant
really talk about this in group.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 31.
24 CONTINUED: 24
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
There are people here who open
their mouths and every sin against
them can come tumbling out. You
dont have that luxury, Abigail.
Abigail tosses the book on her bed and looks for her coat.
ABIGAIL
I just have to get used to lying.
HANNIBAL
You must only lie about one thing.
And when youre with me, you dont
have to lie about anything.
ABIGAIL
In the dream, I wonder how Id live
with myself knowing what I did.
HANNIBAL
And when youre awake?
She shrugs on her coat, thoughtful.
ABIGAIL
And when Im awake, I know I can
live with myself. I know I will
just get used to what I did.
Hannibal studies her with a sense of paternal pride.
ABIGAIL (CONTD)
Does that make me a sociopath?
HANNIBAL
No. It makes you a survivor.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 31A.
A26 CONTINUED: A26
ACT FOUR
CLOSE ON - STEEPING TEA
Mushrooms bound like a flower in a crystal cup blossom and
open in the piping hot water.
26 INT. HANNIBALS HOME - KITCHEN - DAY 5 26
Tomatoes roast as Hannibal cuts potatoes in perfect half-inch
cubes, tossing them into a pan with whole unpeeled garlic
gloves and thyme. He grinds fresh meat, which also is tossed
into the sizzling pan as Abigail Hobbs looks on from nearby.
HANNIBAL
Its important to know when its
time to turn the page. Have you
thought about applying to schools?
ABIGAIL
My dad killed girls at all the
schools I applied to.
HANNIBAL
Perhaps that can wait then.
ABIGAIL
I want to work for the F.B.I.
Hannibals face cracks into a warm grin.
HANNIBAL
I would certainly feel safer if you
were in the hallowed halls of the
F.B.I. protecting my interests.
ABIGAIL
They wouldnt let me, would they?
Because of what my dad did.
HANNIBAL
Only if they believe that is in
your nature, too.
ABIGAIL
Nature versus nurture.
HANNIBAL
We dont invent our natures,
Abigail. Theyre issued to us,
with our lungs and pancreas and
everything else. Cant fight it.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 32.
(CONTINUED)
ABIGAIL
I dont know what my nature is.
HANNIBAL
You are not your fathers daughter.
Not anymore.
ABIGAIL
What wouldve happened to my dad if
you guys didnt kill him?
HANNIBAL
We live in a primitive time,
Abigail. Neither savage nor wise.
Hed be exactly where he is now.
(then)
Be grateful for your scars.
ABIGAIL
Grateful.
HANNIBAL
Our scars have the power to remind
us that the past was real. Anchors
us. We all need to be anchored.
Abigail goes quiet.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
What if it werent so painful
anymore to think of him?
ABIGAIL
My dad?
HANNIBAL
Have you ever taken psilocybin?
ABIGAIL
Mushrooms? Thats whats in the
tea?
HANNIBAL
(nods)
There are those psychiatrists who
believe altered states could be
used to access traumatic memories.
ABIGAIL
I have all the access to traumatic
memories I need. Unlimited access.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 33.
26 CONTINUED: 26
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
Which is why we need to supplement
them with positive associations.
No more bad dreams, Abigail.
ABIGAIL
You want me to do drugs?
HANNIBAL
I want you to do this drug. With
my supervision. Where its safe.
(offers her cup)
Do you trust me?
27 INT. B.A.U. - JACK'S OFFICE - NIGHT 5 27
Jack, Zeller, Katz, and Price hover around the CASE BOARD
that bears the PHOTOS OF EACH OF THE BOYS they've identified
as taking part in the family killings.
It also includes a TIME LINE of their respective abductions,
the dates of the murders they participated in, and a MAP
pinpointing where each of the murders took place.
Jack twists a PUSH PIN into the map at Bangor, Maine.
JACK CRAWFORD
Bangor, Maine. Stamford,
Connecticut. And most recently,
Reston, Virginia.
JIMMY PRICE
That places each of the murders
approximately five hundred miles
from the one before it.
BRIAN ZELLER
Youre trying to attach a
geographical pattern to murders
that took place weeks apart.
WILL GRAHAM
Other patterns too. Our shooters
are minors. Middle children from
traditional affluent families.
BEVERLY KATZ
Theyre not traveling by Greyhound.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 34.
26 CONTINUED: (2) 26
(CONTINUED)
JIMMY PRICE
I drove my dads car when I was 14.
JACK CRAWFORD
Theyre moving southbound, were
looking somewhere on the border of
Georgia and North Carolina.
He CIRCLES the area on the map.
BRIAN ZELLER
(exasperated)
There's hundreds of towns in this
area. Off every freeway ramp.
JACK CRAWFORD
Got a better idea?
BRIAN ZELLER
Throw darts.
He wilts under Jacks gaze.
WILL GRAHAM
Theres a pattern. Less to do with
geography than psychology.
JACK CRAWFORD
What kind of kid would do this?
WILL GRAHAM
And what kind of kid would follow a
kid who did this?
BEVERLY KATZ
The shepherd and his flock.
JIMMY PRICE
When a sheep ran away, the shepherd
used to break its leg to keep it
from running away again. It forced
the sheep to rely on the shepherd.
BEVERLY KATZ
Cruel-to-be-kind.
WILL GRAHAM
Animals remember the voice of a
trusted, familiar person. They
also remember people who inflict
abuse on them.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 35.
27 CONTINUED: 27
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
Theres no indication these kids
came from abusive families.
WILL GRAHAM
Capture-bonding. A passive,
psychological response to a new
master. Its been an essential
survival tool for a million years.
Bond with your captor, you survive.
Dont, youre breakfast.
JACK CRAWFORD
Get files on every missing boy
within 200 miles of North Carolina.
Off Jack --
CLOSE ON - EMPTY TEA CUP (VFX)
It shifts and distorts at first slightly, then more
aggressively, appearing to DEMOLECULARIZE as a hand PASSES
THROUGH IT. A SHATTERING CRASH of china REVEALS we are --
28 INT. HANNIBALS HOME - KITCHEN - NIGHT 5 28
Abigail stares at the shattered tea cup on the floor.
INCLUDE ABIGAILS P.O.V. - HANNIBAL
His voice and movements are thick, plodding.
ABIGAIL
Doctor Bloom said this was okay?
HANNIBAL
Not at all. We often have a
difference of opinion.
ABIGAIL
Another secret for us.
HANNIBAL
You and I will have many secrets.
(then)
Infusing psilocybin into the
bloodstream before psychotherapy
can elicit a positive, even
spiritual, experience for patients.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 36.
27 CONTINUED: (2) 27
(CONTINUED)
ABIGAIL
Im not your patient.
HANNIBAL
No, youre my guest.
(then)
Psychological trauma is an
affliction of the powerless. I
want to give you your power back.
ABIGAIL
I dont feel good.
HANNIBAL
That feeling will pass. Allow it to
wash over you, through you. Let me
be your guide, Abigail.
Abigail eyes the food Hannibals preparing and the orange
juice dripping into a glass from a Philippe Starck juicer.
ABIGAIL
Youre making breakfast for dinner?
HANNIBAL
Not just breakfast. High Life eggs.
A chef in Spain called Muro claims
he invented it in the 19th century.
Hannibal throws an egg in the air, catches it on the edge of
a knife, cracking it and holding it in place as the contents
drool onto a slice of brioche with a hole already in a pan.
The sausage sizzles and crackles in its own pan, almost done.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Taste is not only biochemical, its
also psychological, evoking
memories of places and experiences.
ABIGAIL
Eggs and sausage was the last meal
I was having with my parents.
HANNIBAL
I know. Its also the first meal
youre having with me.
29 INT. B.A.U. - EXAMINATION ROOM - NIGHT 5 29
Will, Beverly and Alana sit at a conference table with many
discarded file folders of missing or abducted kids. There
are FOURTEEN PICTURES arrayed in view, a range of faces.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 37.
28 CONTINUED: 28
(CONTINUED)
ALANA BLOOM
If were looking for our next
Trilby, are we assuming C.J.
Lincoln is in the Svengali role?
BEVERLY KATZ
Sounds like me at fourteen.
ALANA BLOOM
Without the interference of a
leader, these kids would never
consider violent action.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 37A.
29 CONTINUED: 29
(CONTINUED)
BEVERLY KATZ
A fuse yet to be lit.
ALANA BLOOM
A buried darkness. An inkspot on
their soul. It takes a catalyst to
bring that to the surface.
The conversation makes Will uncomfortable. He paces the
table, studying in turn the fourteen pictures.
WILL GRAHAM
Our Trilbys a boy, a paradox in
the midst of a normal family, an
outsider who doesnt look like one.
Hed be good at a vocation,
something inventive or mechanical.
Will leafs through files, discarding ones that dont fit.
ALANA BLOOM
(to Will)
Wouldve been a perfect candidate.
WILL GRAHAM
I would have.
(moving on)
Hed have hobbies that require handeye coordination, that are off the
beaten path... that link up to what
his father does for a living.
Something that consumes him so as
to keep him engaged.
BEVERLY KATZ
The devil makes work for idle hands
kind of thing.
Shes skimming the files, tossing ones aside. Beverly holds
up a photo; its the urinating boy Chris.
BEVERLY KATZ (CONTD)
Heres one. Family moved from
Biloxi, to Charleston to
Fayetteville in the last three
years. He won Junior High award
for his work on pretty
sophisticated computer circuitry.
WILL GRAHAM
Chris O'Halloran.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 38.
29 CONTINUED: (2) 29
(CONTINUED)
ALANA BLOOM
Why do you think these kids are
susceptible to C.J. Lincoln?
WILL GRAHAM
Because he may have a brother, but
their ages or interests set them
apart. A brother without a brother.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 38A.
29 CONTINUED: (3) 29
(CONTINUED)
ALANA BLOOM
Brothers looking for a mother.
The simplicity of that strikes Will like a bullet.
A30 INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORDS OFFICE - NIGHT 5 A30
As Will enters, Jack looks up from his computer.
WILL GRAHAM
Its not just C.J. Lincoln. Theres
an adult with some formative sway.
Its a woman. A mother figure.
Shes looking to form a family.
JACK CRAWFORD
Family can have a contagion effect
on the alienated. You adopt the
same attitudes, the same behaviors.
WILL GRAHAM
I never got bit by that bug.
JACK CRAWFORD
I managed to avoid it myself.
WILL GRAHAM
Whoever this woman is, she wants
these children to... burst with
love for her. And she needs to
erase their families to do that.
JACK CRAWFORD
She abducts them, convinces them no
one can love them like she does.
Then makes absolutely sure of it.
Will hands Jack the file on Chris OHalloran.
WILL GRAHAM
Security camera from a convenience
store in Alexandria, Virginia
captured surveillance footage of
Chris OHalloran this morning. He
was with an unidentified woman.
JACK CRAWFORD
Wheres this kids family?
WILL GRAHAM
Fayetteville, North Carolina.
CLOSE ON - CHRIS
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 39.
29 CONTINUED: (4) 29
(CONTINUED)
The urinating child seen earlier at the Convenience Store
being menaced by C.J. Lincoln. CAMERA REVEALS we are --
30 EXT. OHALLORAN HOME - NIGHT 5 30
Chris stands alone on the doorstep of his familys home. We
HEAR FOOTSTEPS approaching to answer the door.
A CHYRON tells us we are --
FAYETTEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
The front door opens and Chriss mother, MARCY OHALLORAN
(40s) gasps to find her missing son suddenly returned to her.
MARCY
Christopher? Oh my god, Chris!
She throws her arms around the boy. A MOMENT OF TRUE JOY AND
ELATION. But when she looks in Chriss eyes she sees
SOMETHING THAT FRIGHTENS HER. His eyes are dead.
C.J. LINCOLN
He steps out of the darkness, handing him a gun.
C.J. LINCOLN
Your turn, Chris.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 39A.
A30 CONTINUED: A30
ACT FIVE
31 EXT. OHALLORAN HOME - NIGHT 5 31
WIDE SHOT, featuring an elegant, A-frame house oozing with
lazy, Magnolia-scented Carolina charm. A CHYRON reads --
FAYETTEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
A FLORIST DELIVERY VAN quietly pulls up in front of the AFrame. Jack Crawford emerges from the sliding side doors as
F.B.I. AGENTS and ARMED SWAT MEMBERS swarm toward the house.
32 INT. O'HALLORAN HOME - MOMENTS LATER 32
A SWAT GUY with an air-ram blasts open the door. Jack leads
our team behind the front guard of SWAT...
CAMERA MOVES through the house, following the SWAT TEAM,
followed by Will, Zeller, Price and Katz, guns drawn and at
the low ready. They sweep through the house, splitting off to
cover various rooms, balletic in movement...
ON JACK, cautiously bringing up the rear. Weapon at the
ready, he carefully steps toward the back of the house.
JACKS P.O.V. - THRU THE WINDOW
The backyard. Where the O'Hallorans were in the process of a
barbecue lunch. But somethings gone wrong.
JACK CRAWFORD
F.B.I., Drop the weapon!
He motions Will and the others forward.
33 EXT. OHALLORAN HOME - BACKYARD - NIGHT 5 33
A BARBECUE TABLEAUX played all over America every weekend of
the year. Weber grill. A-One steak sauce. Burgers and dogs
cooking red hot. Only one thing wrong...
THE LOST BOYS (C.J. Lincoln, Jesse Turner, and Chris
O'Halloran, along with TWO OTHER BOYS) are formed in a semicircle around the terrified O'Halloran parents (Dad, Mom, a
boy and a girl). C.J. holds a gun to the OHalloran Father.
JACK CRAWFORD bursts into the yard. SWAT is there in various
positions. Will, Zeller, Price and Katz bring up the rear.
C.J. tenses his finger on the trigger to fire at Mr.
O'Halloran. BLAM! In a split second miscalculation, C.J.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 40.
(CONTINUED)
misses his dead-to-rights shot of the back of Mr.
OHallorans head and instead takes off a portion of his ear.
A SECOND SHOT RINGS OUT and C.J. is hit in the head.
BARBECUE GRILL ANGLE (INSERT ON STAGE)
Looking up through the grill, C.J. Lincoln face-plants on the
grill, cheek seared at 400 degrees.
Chris OHalloran BOLTS. A SWAT MEMBER raises his gun, but
Will takes off after the young boy.
WILL GRAHAM
I got him.
STAY TIGHT ON JACK
WIDENING, to reveal C.J. sprawled dead, everyone else frozen
in shock. Zeller pulls C.J. off the grill, his body slumping
to the ground. Mr. O'Halloran clutches his bloody ear,
alive. SWAT MEMBERS cuff Jesse Turner and the other boys.
NEW ANGLE - DEEP BACK YARD
WILL sprints in pursuit along with several other SWAT GUYS.
EMTS rush to Mr. O'Halloran.
ON JACK CRAWFORD
The SWAT TEAM cuff and remove Jesse Turner and the two ND
young boys. Jack moves to the O'Halloran children (ages 8
and 12). His manner with them is gentle --
JACK CRAWFORD
Im Jack Crawford. Im with the
F.B.I. Were here to help you.
You guys okay?
They nod. Zeller and Price move quickly to help Mr.
OHalloran and guide he and his wife inside.
Jack speaks gently to the OHalloran children.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
Your Dads going to be alright. So
are you. Give me your hands. Im
going to take you inside.
His calmness works. The daughter (8) reaches out to CLASP
his OUTSTRETCHED HAND. Jack looks at her with compassion.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 41.
33 CONTINUED: 33
34 EXT. OHALLORAN HOUSE - GAZEBO - SAME TIME 34
ON CHRIS O'HALLORAN, running for his life.
WILL GRAHAM
Chris, stop.
Chris pulls up short. He turns around. And we see that in
his hand is a GUN.
WIDENING, to reveal Will and several SWAT GUYS taking
positions ten yards away from Chris.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
(to SWAT)
Dont shoot.
(to Chris)
You dont have to worry about C.J.
anymore. Its okay. Youre home
now. Put down the gun, Christopher.
Chris shuffles on his feet, eyes welling. And this is when
Will has a realization --
WOMANS VOICE
Shoot him, Christopher.
ANOTHER FIGURE emerges from the shadows. Its Eva, the woman
seen at the end of Act Three. She too has a gun in her hand,
but its at the back of Christophers spine.
EVA
Shoot him for me.
(to Will)
Drop your gun. For my boy.
WILL GRAHAM
Youre his new mother.
EVA
I am. And I love him, but I will
do what I have to do for my family.
WILL GRAHAM
You abducted these boys. Your
son C.J. killed your other son
Connor. You burned his remains to
honor him as his mother.
She studies Will, how dare he question her motherhood.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 42.
(CONTINUED)
EVA
Im honoring them like their other
mothers wouldnt. Theyre not
invisible anymore. I can see them.
I see who they are and love them.
WILL GRAHAM
Be Christophers mother now.
Protect him. Dont murder him.
EVA
The most loving mothers commit
murder with smiles on their faces.
They force us to destroy the person
we are. A subtle kind of murder.
Will lets the gun FALL TO THE GROUND.
EVA (CONTD)
Shoot him, Christopher. Like I
showed you.
Chriss traumatized glance pierces Wills heart.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 42A.
34 CONTINUED: 34
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
Christopher, please.
She raises her gun. BLAM!
The shot is so immediate and unexpected that Will checks his
stomach to see where the bullet hit. It takes a moment for
Will to realize he hasnt been hit at all.
Eva spins, her shoulder erupting in a cloud of arterial spray
as she is hit. Chriss arm goes limp at his side.
REVERSE TO REVEAL BEVERLY KATZ, gun outstretched, smoke
issuing from the barrel. Will kneels in front of Chris,
gently taking the gun from his hand. Will watches as Beverly
moves in and almost motherly guides Chris away.
Will crosses to fallen Eva on the ground; she takes sharp
breaths, tensing through the pain. As the SWAT TEAM
surrounds her, Will stares down at her. Condemnation at what
shes done to these boys...
A35 INT. F.B.I. TACTICAL VAN - NIGHT 5 A35
Chris OHalloran sits on a bench, alone. After a moment, the
back doors OPEN, blasting daylight and silhouetting Jack
Crawford as he ENTERS. He sits opposite the small boy, who
does not look up at the imposing man studying him. Finally:
CHRIS OHALLORAN
Can I go home now?
JACK CRAWFORD
No. You might not get to go home
for a long time...
(then)
You came here to kill your family.
Thats all anybody knows. Thats
all anyone may ever believe.
CHRIS OHALLORAN
I wasnt going to do it.
JACK CRAWFORD
Youre going to talk to a lot of
people who will try to understand
exactly what you were going to do.
CHRIS OHALLORAN
Am I going to jail?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 43.
34 CONTINUED: (2) 34
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
I dont think you have the capacity
to plan and execute murder. The
civilized thing to do with you
would be counseling and
rehabilitation, not prison.
CHRIS OHALLORAN
She told me they werent my family.
That we had to make our own family.
(then)
Do you have a family?
JACK CRAWFORD
I dont have children, no.
CHRIS OHALLORAN
Then you dont know what its like.
JACK CRAWFORD
I wish to god you hadnt gone with
that woman, but you did. All of
that cant just suddenly be undone.
But in time, if you trust me, we
can start undoing what we can.
CHRIS OHALLORAN
Can I talk to my mom? My real mom?
JACK CRAWFORD
In a little while, but right now I
need you to talk to me.
35 INT. HANNIBALS HOME - FOYER - NIGHT 5 35
Hannibal holds the door open as Alana Bloom ENTERS, annoyed
with him and searching for the words to express it.
ALANA BLOOM
As someone who makes such a big
deal about common courtesy, Im a
little taken aback, slash a lot
taken aback, that you would check
my patient, my patient, out of the
hospital without permission. Im
not a professional scold. Dont
put me in this position ever again.
HANNIBAL
Im sorry.
ALANA BLOOM
Rude, Hannibal. Shockingly rude.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 43A.
A35 CONTINUED: A35
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
You have every right to be upset
with me. I overstepped my bounds.
ALANA BLOOM
Where is she?
HANNIBAL
Shes in the dining room.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 43B.
35 CONTINUED: 35
(CONTINUED)
Alana moves toward the dining room, but Hannibal puts a
gentle hand on her shoulder to slow her down.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Alana, you were right.
ALANA BLOOM
Often am. Have to be more specific.
HANNIBAL
She wasnt ready to leave the
hospital. She experienced a bit of
anxiety so I gave her a sedative.
ALANA BLOOM
A sedative?
HANNIBAL
Half a valium. She may be a little
hazy.
36 INT. HANNIBALS HOME - DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 36
Hannibal and Alana ENTER to find Abigail sitting at the table
with food and teacup in front of her.
ABIGAIL
Hi, Doctor Bloom.
ALANA BLOOM
(re: third place setting)
You were expecting me?
HANNIBAL
In the interest of honesty, we were
expecting Will Graham. But my
phone calls went unreturned.
(pulling out chair)
Please. Sit down.
Alana does as instructed.
ABIGAIL
Are you hungry? Hannibal made
breakfast for dinner.
ALANA BLOOM
I could eat.
Hannibal notices Abigail smiling and he and Alana.
HANNIBAL
What is it? What do you see?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 44.
35 CONTINUED: (2) 35
(CONTINUED)
ABIGAILS P.O.V.
Alana Bloom and Hannibal BLUR and LOSE FOCUS before slowly
regaining focus. As Alana Bloom and Hannibal become clear
again, we realize they are now LOUISE and GARRET JACOB HOBBS.
ABIGAIL
I see family.
OMNISCIENT P.O.V.
Hannibal smiles at Alana, who is more thoughtful, unsure how
to feel about Abigails admission. Nevertheless, off that
artificial family tableau, we...
37 INT. JACK CRAWFORDS BEDROOM - NIGHT 5 37
Jack lies in bed by himself, reading. After a moment, his
wife, BELLA CRAWFORD, beautiful in her late 40s, ENTERS.
JACK CRAWFORD
Hello.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Hello.
He watches silently as she disrobes and crawls into bed.
JACK CRAWFORD
Is it too late for us to have kids?
Bella Crawford pauses briefly and considers the question
before curling onto her side, back to Jack.
BELLA CRAWFORD
It is for me.
She shuts off the light on her night stand leaving Jack and
his side of the bed half in light, half in dark.
After a moment, Jack turns off his own light.
38 INT. WILL GRAHAMS HOUSE - LIVING ROOM/BEDROOM - NIGHT 5 38
Will lays in his bed watching as the last of his dogs finally
settle and go to sleep, his own children happy in their beds.
He smiles and closes his eyes.
THE END
HANNIBAL - PROD. #104 - DBL GOLDENROD Collated 4/27/13 45.
36 CONTINUED: 36
Coquilles
Story by
Scott Nimerfro
Teleplay by
Scott Nimerfro
&
Bryan Fuller
Directed by
Guillermo Navarro
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Prod. #106/Air #105 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2012 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Jesse Alexander
Executive Producer: Chris Brancato
HANNIBAL
Coquilles
TEASER
CLOSE ON - A TERRINE OF FOIE GRAS
A spoon full of SAUCE is followed by a garnish.
1 INT. HANNIBALS HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT 1 1
JACK CRAWFORD and his beautiful wife BELLA CRAWFORD sit at
Hannibals table, their host preparing the next course.
Bella watches her husband take a drink of his wine, savoring
the flavor. He glances up, catching her looking, and when he
does, his smile is genuine, her smile is forced.
HANNIBAL enters carrying individual TERRINES OF FOIE GRAS.
HANNIBAL
A masterpiece foie gras Au torchon
with a late harvest Vidal sauce and
dry and fresh figs.
He places the terrines in front of the Crawfords.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Mrs. Crawford, your husband
introduced you as Bella. Are you
an Isabelle or an Annabelle?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Im a Phyllis. But Jack only calls
me Phyllis when we disagree.
HANNIBAL
So named Bella for your beauty?
JACK CRAWFORD
We were both stationed in Italy. I
was Army. She was NATO staff. The
Italian men called her Bella. But
I wanted her to be my Bella.
(takes a bite)
Cold foie gras with warm figs.
Bella eyes the Terrine of Foie Gras.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Would I be a horrible guest if I
skipped this course?
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
Too rich?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Too cruel.
JACK CRAWFORD
Phyllis.
HANNIBAL
First and worst sign of sociopathic
behavior -- cruelty to animals.
JACK CRAWFORD
That doesnt apply in the kitchen.
HANNIBAL
I have no taste for animal cruelty.
The goose, in this case the gander,
is not force fed. It eats only as
much as it chooses and only in its
natural environment.
(to Jack)
Would you like your wifes serving?
JACK CRAWFORD
Please.
HANNIBAL
At my table, just the cruel deserve
cruelty, Mrs. Crawford. Which is
why I employ an ethical butcher.
BELLA CRAWFORD
An ethical butcher? Be kind to
animals and then eat them?
HANNIBAL
Im afraid I insist on it. No need
for unnecessary suffering. Human
emotions are gifts from our animal
ancestors. Cruelty is the gift
humanity has given itself.
JACK CRAWFORD
The gift that keeps giving.
Hannibal leans over Bella, pouring more wine into her glass.
HANNIBAL
Your perfume is exquisite, similar
to the aroma on the air just after
lightning strikes. Is it Jar?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 2.
1 CONTINUED: 1
(CONTINUED)
BELLA CRAWFORD
Youve got some nose, Doctor.
HANNIBAL
I first noticed my keen sense of
smell when I was a young man. I
was aware one of my teachers had
stomach cancer even before he did.
JACK CRAWFORD
Makes an effective parlor trick.
An almost imperceptible reaction from Bella Crawford.
Exactly the effect Hannibal was trying to achieve. Then:
HANNIBAL
Our next course is roasted pork
shank. And I assure you, Bella, it
was an especially supercilious pig.
CUT TO:
A HOOF
It ENTERS FRAME with an ominous, scraping CLACK. We are --
2 EXT. LONELY ROAD - NIGHT 1 2
The BLACK STAG slowly lumbers down the vacant rural road.
CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL it is walking directly behind...
WILL GRAHAM
His eyes are glassy and vacant. Hes clad in boxers and a
white t-shirt, coming directly from bed. He walks on the
gravel, barefoot, seemingly unaware of the BEAST behind him.
Will Graham looks up at the BRIGHT MOON overhead, his
HEARTBEAT and CIRCULATORY SYSTEM a DIN in his ears.
He stops, swaying ever so slightly at his ankles. The BLACK
STAG slows to a stop. Its SNOUT nudges Wills arm, dangling
at his side. Will doesnt react, his arm only barely moves.
WILLS P.O.V. - THE ROAD
It stretches into the night in front of Will, VIBRATING IN
AND OUT OF FOCUS as BEAMS OF LIGHT cut through the darkness.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 3.
1 CONTINUED: (2) 1
(CONTINUED)
ON WILL GRAHAM
He instinctively holds up his arm to shield his eyes from the
glare of the BRIGHT HEADLIGHTS. CAMERA REVEALS they belong
to an approaching POLICE CAR. It rolls to a stop.
TWO POLICE OFFICERS step out of either side of A POLICE CAR.
POLICE OFFICER
Are you lost?
WILL GRAHAM
What?
POLICE OFFICER
Whats your name?
WILL GRAHAM
Will Graham
POLICE OFFICER
You know where you are, Mr. Graham?
WILL GRAHAM
No.
POLICE OFFICER
Where do you live?
WILL GRAHAM
Wolf Trap, Virginia.
POLICE OFFICER
Were in Wolf Trap. So thats
good. Youre close to home.
(then)
Is that yours?
Will Graham slowly glances over to see, not the BLACK STAG of
his nightmare, but the tail-wagging concern of WINSTON.
WILL GRAHAM
Hi, Winston.
Winston can barely contain himself, worried about Will. As
his dog nudges Will, he becomes aware he is in mild pain.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
Can I sit down? My feet hurt.
POLICE OFFICER
Why dont we take you home?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 4.
2 CONTINUED: 2
3 MOMENTS LATER - BACK OF COP CAR 3
Will slides in followed immediately thereafter by Winston. A
standard-issue wool blanket wrapped around his shoulders,
Will plucks gravel out of his feet while trying to keep
Winston from licking his wounds and his face. One of the
POLICE OFFICERS hover over him, flashlights shining politely.
POLICE OFFICER
Are you on any drugs, medications?
Prescription or otherwise?
WILL GRAHAM
No.
POLICE OFFICER
Have you been drinking?
WILL GRAHAM
No. Yes. Not excessively. I had
two fingers of whiskey before bed.
POLICE OFFICER
Do you have a history of
sleepwalking, Mr. Graham?
WILL GRAHAM
(shakes his head no)
Im not even sure Im awake now.
PLINK. PLINK. PLINK. The PRE-LAPPING sound of...
AN ICE MACHINE
CUBES OF ICE drop one by one, falling onto a larger pile of
ice in a hypnotic fashion. We are --
4 EXT. THE WELCOME INN MOTEL - ICE MACHINE - DAY 2 4
CAMERA PULLS BACK TO FIND the back of a LONE MAN standing at
the Ice Machine, a sheen of sweat coating the nape of his
neck (NOTE: We do not see his face).
A FAMILY OF THREE (MAN, WOMAN, CHILD) shuffles by juggling
their suitcases. The Lone Man scoops ice into his bucket to
not draw attention to himself, glancing at the Family.
LONE MANS P.O.V.
The CHILD smiles and the Lone Man looks away. The Woman
draws the child closer, protective but not too obvious.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 5.
(CONTINUED)
OMNISCIENT P.O.V.
The Lone Man returns his attention to the PLINK-PLINK-PLINK
of the Ice Machine. He slowly turns to see A COUPLE who we
will call MR. and MRS. ANDERSON emerging from their room and
walking toward the Ice Machine with a bucket.
As they approach, the LONE MAN quickly starts scooping up ice
into his bucket. Hes apparently afraid to look at Mr. and
Mrs. Anderson, but cant help himself.
LONE MANS P.O.V.
The flesh of Mr. and Mrs. Andersons face and hands are
monstrously DISTORTED, RIPPLING trails of HEAT emanate from
their bodies as his skin ROILS WITH FLAME.
Demonic... hallucinogenic...
The Lone Man averts his eyes toward...
THE BUCKET OF ICE
The reflective fire of the approaching COUPLE flickers off
the ice. OFF the ice beginning to melt...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 6.
4 CONTINUED: 4
ACT ONE
5 EXT. HANNIBALS HOUSE - EARLY MORNING 2 5
ESTABLISHING. A CHRYON tell us we are --
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND
CLOSE ON - VACUUM COFFEE MAKER
The VAPOR PRESSURE of the water in the lower chamber pushes
water up into the higher chamber, through the coffee grounds.
We are --
6 INT. HANNIBALS KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING 2 6
Hannibal wears his bathrobe, having been roused from sleep.
Will stands nearby, fully clothed, relatively bright eyed.
HANNIBAL
Although I may be, is it safe to
assume youre not sleepwalking now?
WILL GRAHAM
Im sorry its so early.
HANNIBAL
Never apologize for coming to me.
Office hours are for patients. My
kitchen is always open to friends.
Hannibal hands Will a cup of coffee.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Onset of sleepwalking in adulthood
is less common than in children.
WILL GRAHAM
Could it be a seizure?
HANNIBAL
Id argue good old-fashioned post
traumatic stress. Jack Crawford has
gotten your hands very dirty.
WILL GRAHAM
Wasnt forced back into the field.
HANNIBAL
I wouldnt say forced. Manipulated
would be the word Id choose.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 7.
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
I can handle it.
HANNIBAL
Somewhere between denying horrible
events and calling them out lies
the truth of psychological trauma.
WILL GRAHAM
So I cant handle it?
HANNIBAL
Your experience mayve overwhelmed
ordinary functions that give you a
sense of control.
WILL GRAHAM
If my body is walking around
without my permission, youd say
thats a loss of control?
HANNIBAL
Wouldnt you?
(then)
Sleepwalkers demonstrate a
difficulty handling aggression.
Are you experiencing difficulty
with aggressive feelings?
Will thinks long and hard about that, then:
WILL GRAHAM
You said Jack sees me as fine china
used for special guests. Beginning
to feel more like an old mug.
HANNIBAL
You entered into a Devils Bargain
with Jack Crawford. Takes a toll.
WILL GRAHAM
Jacks not the devil.
HANNIBAL
When it comes to how far hes
willing to push you to get what he
wants, Jacks certainly no saint.
OFF Will taking that in...
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 8.
6 CONTINUED: 6
7 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY 2 7
Hannibal OPENS his door to find BELLA CRAWFORD sitting in his
waiting room, beautiful even in repose.
HANNIBAL
Mrs. Crawford. Please come in.
8 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - DAY 2 8
Hannibal sits opposite BELLA CRAWFORD.
HANNIBAL
How often do you see him?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Twice a week at first. Now its
usually just once.
HANNIBAL
Youre satisfied then?
BELLA CRAWFORD
(shrugs)
Enough to keep seeing him.
HANNIBAL
Your intention is not to tell Jack.
BELLA CRAWFORD
I dont know what good it will do.
It would just be complaining. I
dont complain. Makes it easier to
be intolerant of complainers.
HANNIBAL
Youre allowed to complain.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Ill complain to you. Jack sees
the world at its worst. Dont need
him seeing me at mine. He already
has too much to worry about.
HANNIBAL
He has room for one more worry.
(then)
Seems like youre protecting him.
BELLA CRAWFORD
I am.
Bella heaves a sigh, knowing what is ahead.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 9.
(CONTINUED)
BELLA CRAWFORD (CONTD)
Ive had dinner at your home. You
have a professional relationship
with my husband. Theres no
conflict of interest me being here?
Hannibal smiles, appreciates the attempt at deflection.
HANNIBAL
Its unorthodox but not unheard of.
(then, sobering)
Given the nature of your problem,
seeing someone who knows Jack
removes some of the guesswork.
BELLA CRAWFORD
This all started as some misguided
stab at maintaining my dignity.
HANNIBAL
Nothing undignified about this.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Not yet, but I have indignity to
look forward to, dont I?
HANNIBAL
Only indignity I see is resentment.
Why do you resent your husband?
BELLA CRAWFORD
I resent that Jack has too much to
worry about to worry about me.
HANNIBAL
Thats your choice, not his.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Maybe you should see us both for
couples counseling.
HANNIBAL
Id recommend another psychiatrist
for couples. I wouldnt want you
to have the home couch advantage.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Its hard enough dealing with how I
feel about all this. Dont need to
deal with how Jack feels about it.
OFF Hannibal, curious to look into Jack Crawfords life...
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 10.
8 CONTINUED: 8
9 EXT. THE WELCOME INN MOTEL - DAY 2 9
A bungalow-style travel lodge in its seedy, ramshackle
heyday. A CHYRON TELLS US WE ARE --
TRENTON, NEW JERSEY
Jack Crawford and Will Graham move through the gauntlet of
shell-shocked LOCAL POLICE OFFICERS and F.B.I. AGENTS milling
about CORONERS VANS and POLICE CARS.
JACK CRAWFORD
Room was registered to John Smith,
along with every other room here.
WILL GRAHAM
Appalling failure of imagination.
JACK CRAWFORD
They paid with cash. No security
cameras on the premises. The motel
practically advertises it.
WILL GRAHAM
John Smith one of the victims?
JACK CRAWFORD
Mr. and Mrs. Anderson according to
the register. Mutilated,
displayed. Thought it might be the
Chesapeake Ripper but no surgical
trophies were taken.
(then)
I need you to prepare yourself.
WILL GRAHAM
Im prepared.
JACK CRAWFORD
Prepare yourself some more. Its
soup in there.
WILL GRAHAM
Soup isnt good for the soul.
JACK CRAWFORD
Not this soup. No jurisdictional
rivalry here. Local Police
practically begged us to take it.
Off Wills haze, Jack snaps fingers to get Wills attention.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 11.
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
Wheres your head?
WILL GRAHAM
On my pillow. I didnt sleep.
JACK CRAWFORD
Got just the thing to wake you up.
10 INT. THE WELCOME INN MOTEL - MOTEL ROOM - DAY 2 10
Jack Crawford and Will Graham ENTER to find BRIAN ZELLER
taking photographs of the crime scene.
THE DEATH TABLEAU
TWO BODIES, one male, one female, kneel on either side of the
bed. The FLESH OF THEIR BACKS has been cut down the middle,
each side peeled back in a LARGE FLAP, which rise
outstretched like WINGS. Hooks in the skin tied to hooks in
the ceiling and walls with FISHING LINE SPREAD the wings.
Wrists are bound in front of them also with FISHING LINE,
raised in mock prayer. VICTIMS heads loll on their necks.
Zeller photographs the dorsal wounds of the victims as
BEVERLY KATZ navigates the fishing line to take samples from
the crumpled bed sheets that were clearly slept in.
JIMMY PRICE is dusting an OPEN BOTTLE OF SCOTCH and THREE
GLASSES on a small table for fingerprints, one is still full.
WILL GRAHAM
Okay. Im awake.
JACK CRAWFORD
Hooks were bored into the ceiling.
Fishing line was used to hold up
the bodies and parts of bodies.
BEVERLY KATZ
Least we know hes a fisherman.
JIMMY PRICE
And or a Viking.
BRIAN ZELLER
Vikings do this?
JIMMY PRICE
Vikings do a lot of things.
Discovered America 500 years before
Columbus. Well, discovered Canada.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 12.
9 CONTINUED: 9
(CONTINUED)
BEVERLY KATZ
Canada is America.
JIMMY PRICE
Vikings would execute Christians by
breaking their ribs and bending
them back so they looked like
wings. Then theyd rip out their
lungs. Called it a Blood Eagle.
WILL GRAHAM
Pagans mocking the God Fearing.
JACK CRAWFORD
Whos mocking who here?
WILL GRAHAM
Hes not mocking them. Hes
transforming them.
BEVERLY KATZ
I dont know if it was a good
nights sleep, but he slept here.
Hair on the pillow and the sheets
are still damp. Hes a sweater.
WILL GRAHAM
Madness slept here last night.
Beverly indicates the small pool of vomit on the edge of the
bed washing onto the night stand.
BEVERLY KATZ
He threw up on the night stand.
JACK CRAWFORD
Couldnt stomach what he did? Flop
sweat and nervous indigestion.
WILL GRAHAM
Not nervous. Righteous. Thinks hes
elevating them somehow, making them
better than how he saw them. I need
a plastic sheet to cover the bed.
11 INT. THE WELCOME INN MOTEL - MOTEL ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 11
A RUBBER EVIDENCE SHEET covers the entire bed, creating a
barrier to evidence tampering. Will Graham lays back on the
bed, glancing down at the man-made monsters at his feet.
Will Graham takes a breath, exhales.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 13.
10 CONTINUED: 10
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
This is not who you are. You are
more now than what you were.
A PENDULUM
It swings in the darkness of Wills mind. FWUM. FWUM. FWUM.
WILLS P.O.V.
The PENDULUM arcs through FRAME, wiping away in its wake the
gush of BLOOD STAINS on the bed. FWUM. The PENDULUM swings
again, wiping away the fishing wire and the hooks. FWUM.
The PENDULUM ARCS REVEALING the MALE and FEMALE VICTIMS are
now pre-skinning, kneeling in supplication by the bed.
ON WILL GRAHAM
He watches with restrained awe as he narrates:
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
This is my gift to you.
WILLS P.O.V.
The Male and Female Victims backs simultaneously SPLIT AND
OPEN, UNFOLDING INTO OUTSTRETCHED WINGS in one graceful,
elegant, horrifying movement. BACKLIT FISHING LINES extend
from the WINGS like BIBLICAL RAYS OF LIGHT.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
I allow you to be Angels.
ON WILL GRAHAM
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
Now I lay me down to sleep.
OFF Will closing his eyes...
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 14.
11 CONTINUED: 11
ACT TWO
OVERHEAD ANGLE - TWO BLOOD EAGLES
At this vantage point the WINGED-CORPSES of MR. and MRS.
ANDERSON appear to hover over stainless steel slabs.
BEVERLY KATZ
Death makes angels of us all...
We are --
12 INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY 2 12
Beverly Katz runs a small PLASTIC TOOL along the flap of skin
hanging off the exposed muscle of Mrs. Andersons back.
Brian Zeller carefully removes the fish hooks one by one,
dropping them into a pan with a PLINK... PLINK... PLINK.
BEVERLY KATZ
...and gives us wings where we had
shoulders smooth as ravens claws.
BRIAN ZELLER
Robert Frost.
WILL GRAHAM
Jim Morrison.
BEVERLY KATZ
Even a drunk with a flair for the
dramatic can convince himself hes
God. Or the Lizard King.
JIMMY PRICE
God makes angels. Jesus was fond
of Fisherman. Are we going hard
core Judeo-Christian upsetting or
just upsetting in general.
WILL GRAHAM
This is a very specific upsetting.
BRIAN ZELLER
Increase of serotonin in the wounds
is much higher than the free
histamines so she lived for about
15 minutes after she was skinned.
Jimmy Price ENTERS from his WORK BAY, having just identified:
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 15.
(CONTINUED)
JIMMY PRICE
The powder residue on the neck of
the soda bottle was Vecuronium.
Scotchn sodan a paralytic agent.
BRIAN ZELLER
Had them kneeling in supplication
at the feet of G dash D.
JIMMY PRICE
Supplication is the most common
form of prayer. Gimme-gimme-gimme.
WILL GRAHAM
They werent praying to him. They
were praying for him. Hes afraid.
BEVERLY KATZ
What is somebody who could do
something like this afraid of?
Several answers fly through Wills mind, but the clearest is:
WILL GRAHAM
Hes dying.
(then)
Whats in his vomit?
BEVERLY KATZ
(off Toxicology report)
Dexamethasone... kepra...
BRIAN ZELLER
He was epileptic. Radiation?
BEVERLY KATZ
Gamma four.
BRIAN ZELLER
Steroids for inflammation. Anticonvulsants for seizures.
Radiation from chemotherapy.
(then)
Our guy has a brain tumor.
WILL GRAHAM
Hes afraid of dying in his sleep.
He makes Angels to watch over him.
13 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - NIGHT 2 13
Hannibal stands over Will on the second floor, scanning the
shelves for a particular book on NEUROLOGY. He pulls it.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 16.
12 CONTINUED: 12
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
Theres no one and only spiritual
center of the brain. Any idea of
God comes from many areas of the
mind working together in unison.
Hannibal climbs down the ladder then tosses the book to Will.
WILL GRAHAM
(perusing the book)
Maybe Im wrong. How do you profile
someone who has an anomaly in their
head changing the way they think?
HANNIBAL
A tumor can definitely affect brain
function, even causing vivid
hallucinations. However, what
appears to be driving your Angel
Maker to create heaven on Earth is
a simple issue of mortality.
WILL GRAHAM
Cant beat God, become him.
HANNIBAL
You said he was afraid.
WILL GRAHAM
He feels abandoned.
HANNIBAL
Ever feel abandoned, Will?
WILL GRAHAM
Abandonment requires expectation.
HANNIBAL
What were your expectations of Jack
Crawford and the F.B.I.?
WILL GRAHAM
Jack hasnt abandoned me.
HANNIBAL
Not in any discernible way.
Perhaps in the way Gods abandon
their creations.
WILL GRAHAM
Well, this should be interesting.
(then)
Please proceed, Doctor.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 17.
13 CONTINUED: 13
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
Jack gave you his word he would
protect your head space. Yet he
leaves you to your mental devices.
WILL GRAHAM
Are you trying to alienate me from
Jack Crawford?
HANNIBAL
Im trying to help you understand
this Angel Maker you seek.
WILL GRAHAM
Help me understand how to catch him.
HANNIBAL
If he were a classic paranoid
schizophrenic, you might be able to
influence him to become visible.
WILL GRAHAM
Scare him out into the daylight.
HANNIBAL
Might even get him to hurt himself
if he hasnt already.
WILL GRAHAM
If he were self-destructive, he
wouldnt be so careful.
HANNIBAL
Unless hes being careful about his
self-destruction. Hes making
angels to pray over him when he
sleeps.
(then)
Who prays over us when we sleep?
OFF Will not knowing the answer to that question...
14 INT. JACK CRAWFORDS HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 2 14
Jack Crawford lies in the dark, staring at the ceiling. Bella
ENTERS and silently slips under the covers. A moment, then:
JACK CRAWFORD
Do you wait until I shut off my
light before you come to bed?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Not intentionally. Im working
late, nothing personal.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 18.
13 CONTINUED: (2) 13
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
Can we have a conversation or
should we go on pretending
everything is alright.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Everything is alright.
JACK CRAWFORD
Then no conversation.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Im just overwhelmed at the moment.
JACK CRAWFORD
With?
BELLA CRAWFORD
A lot going on with work, etcetera.
JACK CRAWFORD
I dont like etcetera.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Okay, then its work. I need to
sort through some things. Its
outside your jurisdiction, Jack.
JACK CRAWFORD
Im good at sorting through things.
Very least, I can underwhelm you
when youre feeling overwhelmed.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Youve never been able to
underwhelm me.
JACK CRAWFORD
Theres some confidential something
you cant share with me, that it?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Thats exactly it.
JACK CRAWFORD
Is there anything I can offer you
romantically, physically,
spiritually that can help you?
BELLA CRAWFORD
No.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 19.
14 CONTINUED: 14
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
So what I can do for you as your
husband is to leave you alone and
not ask you questions.
BELLA CRAWFORD
You can ask me whatever you want.
JACK CRAWFORD
I wont insult you by asking if
theres someone else.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Thank you.
JACK CRAWFORD
Whatever youre sorting out, youll
sort it out and well go back to
being us or is this us now?
BELLA CRAWFORD
I dont want this to be us.
JACK CRAWFORD
I love you, Bella.
BELLA CRAWFORD
(to middle-distance)
I love you, too.
JACK CRAWFORD
When there is something I can do,
you promise to tell me?
BELLA CRAWFORD
I promise.
He takes her hand in the dark, but she doesnt look his way.
15 EXT. ABANDONED BUILDING - NIGHT 2 15
A moody evening, moonlight filtered through the hazy light
pollution hanging above the city. Scattered all around the
area are VARIOUS TENTS and sleeping bags suggesting a SHANTY
TOWN populated with HOMELESS.
A CHRYON tells us we are --
CLEVELAND, OHIO
CAMERA FINDS the back of a LONE MAN walking through the
SHANTY TOWN, a sheen of sweat coating the nape of his neck
(NOTE: We do not see his face).
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 20.
14 CONTINUED: (2) 14
(CONTINUED)
LONE MANS P.O.V.
He glances at the VARIOUS HOMELESS, paying them very little
attention. He looks upward, toward the sky, toward heaven,
taking a deep breath of the night air and exhaling.
There is a distant clopping SOUND of BOOTS on pavement. A
SECURITY GUARD is moving through the winding path that cuts
through the TENTS.
As the SECURITY GUARD approaches, the LONE MAN tenses at what
horror he sees.
LONE MANS P.O.V.
The flesh of the SECURITY GUARDs face and hands is
monstrously DISTORTED, RIPPLING trails of HEAT emanate from
his body as his skin ROILS WITH FLAME.
Demonic... hallucinogenic...
OMNISCIENT P.O.V.
The LONE MANs head turns to follow the Security Guard (not
demonic, not distorted, not flaming) as he approaches.
LONE MAN
I see what you are.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 21.
15 CONTINUED: 15
ACT THREE
ON WILL GRAHAM
He approaches what appears to be an altar on high. CAMERA
PULLS BACK TO REVEAL he is staring at a man-made ANGEL made
from a man. We are --
16 INT. ABANDONED BUILDING - EARLY MORNING 3 16
A CORPSE of a MAN has been mounted on scaffolding covered in
plastic sheets creating a divine luminescing from behind.
Lines of blood streaking the transparent plastic sheets serve
as a corona of sorts emanating down from the angel wings.
Beneath the ANGEL CORPSE, a crumpled, stained mattress.
Will is captivated as Jack Crawford approaches. Brian
Zeller, Beverly Katz and Jimmy Price don their gloves.
JACK CRAWFORD
Why angels?
WILL GRAHAM
It isnt Biblical. His angels have
wings. In sculpture and paintings,
angels fly, but not in the Bible.
JACK CRAWFORD
Hes drawing from secular sources.
WILL GRAHAM
His mind has turned against him and
theres no one there to help.
Brian Zeller carefully picks up a pair of SEVERED TESTICLES.
JIMMY PRICE
Are those? What are those?
BRIAN ZELLER
Someone got an orchiectomy cheap.
Beverly shines her flashlight at the SECURITY GUARDS crotch.
BEVERLY KATZ
Doesnt look like the victim.
JIMMY PRICE
The Angel Maker?
BEVERLY KATZ
He castrated himself?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 22.
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
Hes not just making angels, hes
getting ready to become one.
(off their looks)
Angels dont have genitalia.
JIMMY PRICE
Save me a place in hell.
JACK CRAWFORD
He was afraid of dying and now hes
getting used to the idea?
WILL GRAHAM
Hes accepted it or hes
bargaining.
BRIAN ZELLER
Some bargaining chips.
JACK CRAWFORD
Does that mean hes done making
angels or just getting started.
WILL GRAHAM
I dont know.
JACK CRAWFORD
Hes not just killing when he gets
sleepy. How is he choosing them?
WILL GRAHAM
I dont know. Ask him.
JACK CRAWFORD
Im asking you.
WILL GRAHAM
Youre the head of the Behavioral
Science Unit, Jack. Why dont you
come up with your own answers if
you dont like mine.
A stillness washes over Zeller, Price and Katz with Wills
blatant disrespect. Jack locks Will with a cold stare:
JACK CRAWFORD
I didnt hear that.
WILL GRAHAM
No, you didnt. Im sorry.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 23.
16 CONTINUED: 16
(CONTINUED)
Embarrassed by his outburst, Will wonders back over to the
angel to collect his thoughts. Jack watches him go.
17 INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY 3 17
Will stands between the corpses of MR. and MRS. ANDERSON, as
alone in the work bay as he is in his head. Beverly ENTERS
and leans on the morgue drawer, studying Will.
BEVERLY KATZ
Ive never seen anybody talk to
Jack the way you talked to Jack.
WILL GRAHAM
I was out of line.
BEVERLY KATZ
You were out of your mind. My ears
rang like they did the first time I
heard my mom say the f-word.
(then)
Are you okay? I know its a stupid
thing to ask considering that none
of us could possibly be okay doing
what we do. But are you okay?
WILL GRAHAM
Do I seem different?
BEVERLY KATZ
Youre a little different. Youve
always been a little different.
Brilliant strategy. No one knows
when theres something up with you.
WILL GRAHAM
How would I know if there was
something up with you?
BEVERLY KATZ
You wouldnt. But I would tell you
if you asked me. Return the favor?
Before Will can answer:
JIMMY PRICE (O.S.)
Would the real Mr. and Mrs.
Anderson please stand up.
Will looks up as Jimmy Price ENTERS with a file. The moment
with Beverly is momentarily shattered.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 24.
16 CONTINUED: (2) 16
(CONTINUED)
JIMMY PRICE (CONTD)
No? Meet Roger & Marilyn Brunner.
May recognize them from such lists
as Most Wanted. He likes to rape
and murder. She likes to watch.
Jimmy hands the file to Will, who quickly looks it over.
JIMMY PRICE (CONTD)
We have a DNA match. They
falsified the motel registry and
were driving a stolen car, so it
took a second to identify them.
WILL GRAHAM
I wonder how long it took Angel
Maker to identify them. He didnt
choose them randomly.
Jimmy hands Beverly another report.
JIMMY PRICE
He knows something about them. The
murdered Security Guard wasnt
actually a Security Guard, which
Id say means he was up to no good.
BEVERLY KATZ
Could Angel Maker be a vigilante?
WILL GRAHAM
Vigilantes are pragmatic,
purposeful. They dont lay down
and go to sleep under their crimes.
In his mind, hes doing Gods work.
BEVERLY KATZ
That spells vigilante.
WILL GRAHAM
Playing God has advantages. One of
them is never having to be alone.
BEVERLY KATZ
So he makes Angels out of demons.
JIMMY PRICE
How does he know theyre demons?
WILL GRAHAM
He doesnt have to know. All he
has to do is believe.
OFF Will...
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 25.
17 CONTINUED: 17
18 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - DAY 3 18
Bella Crawford takes a deep breath, sitting opposite
Hannibal. He allows her to gather her thoughts, then:
HANNIBAL
Has Jack begun to suspect? He is a
behavioral specialist. He must know
youre keeping something from him.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Oh, he knows. He asked me if I was
having an affair by reassuring me
he didnt have to ask.
HANNIBAL
I doubt he believes youre
unfaithful.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Why do you doubt that?
HANNIBAL
Its clear you love your husband.
That hits Bella harder than Hannibal thought. She deflects:
BELLA CRAWFORD
Women who love their husbands still
find reasons to cheat on them.
HANNIBAL
Not you. Yet you seem more betrayed
by Jack than your own body.
BELLA CRAWFORD
I dont feel betrayed by Jack. And
theres no point being mad at
cancer for being cancer.
HANNIBAL
Sure there is.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Cancer isnt cruel. A tiny cell
wanders off from my liver and gets
lost. It finds its way into my
lungs where its just trying to do
its job and grow a liver.
HANNIBAL
What its growing and where its
growing it will likely kill you.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 26.
(CONTINUED)
BELLA CRAWFORD
Not likely. It will kill me. And
no amount of blueberries and
antioxidants can change that now.
HANNIBAL
But you hold Jack accountable for
his inability to cure cancer.
(off her look)
Should I have said his inability to
save you? That be more accurate?
BELLA CRAWFORD
I am slowly shrinking while that
tiny thing keeps growing larger
every day, but I feel... fine.
HANNIBAL
Youll feel fine up until the
precise moment you dont.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Its really a very dull story,
isnt it? The ending is always the
same and that same is that it ends.
HANNIBAL
So you withdraw from your
relationship with the man who
strolled along the quays of Livorno,
Italy and called you Bella.
BELLA CRAWFORD
The cancer is already withdrawing
me from our relationship. And
everything else. Maybe itll be
easier for Jack this way.
HANNIBAL
Why? Hes losing you twice.
BELLA CRAWFORD
You said you could smell the
cancer. What did it smell like?
Hannibal considers his answers, then chooses the most honest:
HANNIBAL
Death.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 27.
18 CONTINUED: 18
19 INT. WILL GRAHAMS HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 3 19
Will lies in bed, staring at the ceiling as the ALARM CLOCK
blinks from 11:31 PM to 3:45 AM. Will doesnt close his eyes.
Finally, his eyelids slowly close under their own weight.
CLOSE ON WILLS CLOSED EYES
A distant, muffled BARKING slowly rouses him to consciousness
and Will OPENS HIS EYES. CAMERA REVEALS WE ARE --
20 EXT. WILL GRAHAMS HOUSE - EARLY MORNING 4 20
Will stands on the roof in his underwear. His DOGS BARKING
at him through the open window he apparently crawled through.
OFF Wills growing concern for his new condition...
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 28.
ACT FOUR
ON THE LIP OF AN ASPIRIN BOTTLE
Several TABLETS are shaken into the palm of Wills hand.
We are --
21 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - EVENING 4 21
Will takes THREE ASPIRIN TABLETS from his palm and slings
them back, chasing with a glass of water. Hannibal observes:
HANNIBAL
Its hard to lie still and fear
going to sleep when its there to
think about. You listen to your
breathing in the dark and the tiny
clicks of your blinking eyes.
Will paces, avoiding the patient hot seat.
WILL GRAHAM
I dream more now than I used to.
HANNIBAL
Your dreams were the one place you
could be physically safe
relinquishing control. Not anymore.
WILL GRAHAM
I thought about zipping myself into
a sleeping bag before I go to
sleep, but it sounds too much like
a poor mans straight jacket.
The STATUE OF THE BLACK STAG near the Patient EXIT draws
Wills attention. He walks toward it.
HANNIBAL
Have you determined how this Angel
Maker is choosing his victims?
WILL GRAHAM
He doesnt see people how everyone
else sees them. He can tell if
youre naughty or nice. Or he
thinks he can.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 29.
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
God has given this Angel Maker
insight into the souls of man?
WILL GRAHAM
God didnt give him insight. Gave
him a tumor. Hes just a man whose
brain is playing tricks on him.
HANNIBAL
Youre not unlike this killer.
WILL GRAHAM
My brain is playing tricks on me?
HANNIBAL
You want to feel such sweet and
easy peace. The Angel Maker wants
that same peace. He hopes to feel
his way cautiously inside it and
find it is endless all around him.
WILL GRAHAM
Hes going to be disappointed.
HANNIBAL
You accept the impossibility of
such a feeling. Whereas the Angel
Maker is still chasing it.
Hannibal crosses to study him as he studies the stag.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
If he got close to it, thats where
he would look for it again.
WILL GRAHAM
Ive been trying to reconstruct his
thinking, find his patterns.
HANNIBAL
Instead you find yourself in a
behavior pattern you cant break.
You realize you have a choice.
WILL GRAHAM
What is it?
HANNIBAL
Angel Maker will be destroyed by
whats happening inside his head.
You dont have to be.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 30.
21 CONTINUED: 21
(CONTINUED)
Hannibal stands behind Will, his NOSTRILS FLARE as CAMERA
SLOWLY PUSHES IN on the back of Wills neck.
WILL GRAHAM
Did you just smell me?
HANNIBAL
Difficult to avoid. I really must
introduce you to a finer after
shave. That smells like something
with a ship on the bottle.
WILL GRAHAM
I keep getting it for Christmas.
HANNIBAL
Have your headaches gotten any
worse lately? More frequent?
WILL GRAHAM
Yes, actually.
HANNIBAL
Id change the after shave.
OFF Hannibal realizing there is more to Wills problems than
he knows. But Dr. Lecters nose knows...
CUT TO:
DRIVERS LICENSE ON A DATA PADD
Its a TRUCK DRIVING PERMIT for ELLIOT BUDISH. We are --
22 INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORDS OFFICE - DAY 5 22
Brian Zeller slides the Data Padd across the desk to Jack
Crawford, who gives it a quick once over.
BRIAN ZELLER
Elliot Budish. 35-year-old truck
driver. Got a fishing license, too.
Match came from the national cancer
data base. Married, two children.
Family hasnt seen him in 4 months.
He was diagnosed 5 months ago.
JACK CRAWFORD
Meet the Angel Maker.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 31.
21 CONTINUED: (2) 21
23 INT. B.A.U. - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY 5 23
Jack Crawford and Will Graham sit opposite EMMA BUDISH (30s),
a slightly anxious woman unsure why she is here.
JACK CRAWFORD
Has he contacted you since he left?
EMMA
I left him. And no, he hasnt.
JACK CRAWFORD
Why did you leave?
EMMA
Because of his cancer. Makes me
sound like a horrible wife.
JACK CRAWFORD
Sure you had your reasons.
EMMA
I took a leave from work to be with
him. I wanted to be there for him.
But what he wanted was to be alone.
As she speaks, CAMERA PUSHES IN ON Jack, who is coming to the
unfortunate realization he and Emma have something in common.
EMMA (CONTD)
He kept pulling away and pulling
away. He made it clear he didnt
want me there. Then it wasnt
clear. Then it didnt matter why
he was acting the way he was.
Will watches as Jack pours himself a glass of water and
drinks, mind spinning. Will realizes he has to pick up the
baton of the interrogation as Jack is clearly suddenly
distracted.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 32.
(CONTINUED)
EMMA (CONTD)
It was weird for the kids. What
kind of mother exposes her children
to someone whos losing their mind.
WILL GRAHAM
Was he ever violent, Mrs. Budish?
Her hesitation suggests more than a yes or no answer.
EMMA
He was angry. Never hit me or the
boys. I thought when he got weak
enough, when the cancer got worse,
it wouldnt be confusing for them.
They could just see him as a sick
man, and not someone so terrified.
WILL GRAHAM
Did your husbands faith falter
after he was told about the cancer.
EMMA
Eric wasnt ever religious. Is he
doing something religious?
WILL GRAHAM
He may believe he is.
JACK CRAWFORD
Your husbands dying, Mrs. Budish.
Soon. We want to find him before
he hurts himself or anyone else.
The words coming out of Jacks mouth have a larger import
than they did only moments ago.
EMMA
He died once before. Suffocated in
a fire when he was a little boy.
Fireman who resuscitated him said
he mustve had a guardian angel.
WILL GRAHAM
Where did this happen?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 33.
23 CONTINUED: 23
(CONTINUED)
EMMA
A farm where he grew up.
A24 OMITTED. A24
B24 OMITTED. B24
24 EXT. BARN - DAY 5 24
Will Graham and Jack Crawford stomp through the dead grass as
they approach. TWO LOCAL POLICE CARS and their POLICE
OFFICERS wait in the background.
25 INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS 25
CAMERA FOLLOWS Will Graham and Jack Crawford through a
rolling slatted wood door REVEALING another ANGEL OF DEATH
hanging in the rafters, illuminated by shafts of light.
A stunned moment as Will and Jack take in the horrific image.
Jack heaves an annoyed sigh at another life lost.
WILL GRAHAM
This will be the last one.
Jacks FLASHLIGHT BEAM flickers across the Angels face --
its the same face on the Drivers License seen earlier.
JACK CRAWFORD
Its Budish?
WILL GRAHAM
He made himself into an angel.
Dripping blood from the flesh of his wings draws Will closer.
Jack crosses to the BARN DOOR and shouts to the LOCAL POLICE
OFFICERS waiting in the distant field.
JACK CRAWFORD
Get the Coroner down here.
Will watches Elliot Budishs angelic form from a safe
distance.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 34.
23 CONTINUED: (2) 23
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
It wasnt God, wasnt man, it was
his choice to die.
JACK CRAWFORD
His choice?
WILL GRAHAM
As much as he could make it.
JACK CRAWFORD
You feeling a shortage of choices?
WILL GRAHAM
I dont know how much longer I can
be all that useful to you, Jack.
JACK CRAWFORD
Really? You caught three. The
last three we had, you caught.
WILL GRAHAM
I didnt catch this one. Elliot
Budish surrendered.
Frustrated, Jack turns to walk out of the barn...
JACK CRAWFORD
Im used to not getting information
from my wife. I dont need to not
get information from you, too.
...but Wills confession stops Jack on the threshold:
WILL GRAHAM
Its getting harder and harder to
make myself look.
JACK CRAWFORD
No one is asking you to look alone.
WILL GRAHAM
But I am looking alone. And you
know what looking at this does.
JACK CRAWFORD
I know what happens when you dont
look. So do you.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 35.
25 CONTINUED: 25
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
I can make myself look but the
thinking is shutting down.
JACK CRAWFORD
What is it about this one?
WILL GRAHAM
Its not this one. Its all of
them. Its the next one. Its the
one I know is coming after that.
JACK CRAWFORD
I dont think you want to go back
to your lecture hall and read about
the next one on TattleCrime.com.
WILL GRAHAM
No, I dont. But that may be what
I have to do. This is bad for me.
JACK CRAWFORD
Im not the pope, Im not going to
tell you what you ought to do --
WILL GRAHAM
Sounds like thats exactly what
youre going to do.
JACK CRAWFORD
You go back to your classroom and
theres more killing that you could
have prevented, it will sour that
classroom forever.
WILL GRAHAM
Maybe. Then maybe I find a job as
a diesel mechanic in a boatyard.
Jack Crawford studies Will without saying anything, then
abruptly turns and walks out of the barn, leaving Will alone.
JACK CRAWFORD
If you want to quit, quit.
Will stands there a moment, stung and reeling from the
confrontation, debating on how to proceed.
CAMERA REVEALS Elliot Budish is no longer hanging in the
rafters, but is standing within arms reach of Will.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 36.
25 CONTINUED: (2) 25
ACT FIVE
26 INT. BARN - DAY 5 26
As before. Will Graham turns to see that Elliot Budish is no
longer hanging from the rafters, but is now within reach.
ELLIOT BUDISH P.O.V.
Will turns to see his attacker, the flesh of his face and
hands is monstrously DISTORTED, RIPPLING trails of HEAT
emanate from his body as his skin ROILS WITH FLAME.
Demonic... hallucinogenic...
OMNISCIENT P.O.V.
Weak from the loss of blood from his self-inflicted wounds,
delirious from his tumor, Elliot Budish looks upon Will (not
demonic, not distorted, not flaming) and simply states:
ELLIOT BUDISH
I see what you are.
He stumbles forward, collapsing in apparent supplication on
the floor. Will isnt afraid, his hand calmly goes to his
gun as he slowly steps out of reach.
WILL GRAHAM
What do you see?
ELLIOT BUDISH
Inside. I can bring it out of you.
Will raises his gun, training it on Budish but not firing,
even as Budish advances. Will continues to back away.
WILL GRAHAM
Not all the way out.
Jack Crawford is silhouetted in the doorway.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 37.
(CONTINUED)
ELLIOT BUDISH
I will give you the majesty of your
Becoming.
Elliot Budish cant raise the knife to swipe, instead he
crumples in apparent supplication on the manger floor, his
hands in his lap, somewhat prayer-like. He goes still.
OFF Will and Jacks regard for the fallen angel...
CUT TO:
27 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - PRIVATE EXIT - DAY 6 27
Hannibal OPENS THE DOOR to usher Bella Crawford out. They
are both surprised to see Jack Crawford waiting for them.
HANNIBAL
Agent Crawford.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Hello, Jack.
JACK CRAWFORD
Doctor, you mind waiting in the
waiting room so my wife and I can
borrow your office for a moment?
HANNIBAL
Not at all.
ON HANNIBAL
He takes a seat in his waiting room. CAMERA PULLS BACK as
Jack Crawford closes the door. We are now --
A28 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - DAY 6 A28
Bella Crawford stands, her coat on, holding her purse, ready
to leave. Jack blinks, searches the room for his word.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Just dropping by on official
business... or did you follow me?
JACK CRAWFORD
I called your office. They said
you were at an appointment.
(then)
Thought you might be here.
Bella quickly puts the pieces together, realizing:
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 38.
26 CONTINUED: 26
(CONTINUED)
BELLA CRAWFORD
You know?
(off his nod)
I knew youd find out.
JACK CRAWFORD
When did you find out?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Twelve weeks ago. Lung cancer.
JACK CRAWFORD
You dont smoke.
BELLA CRAWFORD
The irony.
JACK CRAWFORD
Treatable?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Its Stage 4. And we know theres
no Stage 5, dont we?
JACK CRAWFORD
When were you going to tell me?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Far enough in the future that Im
really not prepared to have this
conversation right now.
JACK CRAWFORD
Were having it. Were you going to
wait until you started chemotherapy
and couldnt hide it anymore.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Dont know if I want chemotherapy.
JACK CRAWFORD
Do I have a say in this?
BELLA CRAWFORD
No, you do not.
Jack wishes he didnt respect that choice, but he does.
JACK CRAWFORD
Do you want to be alone?
The bluntness of his question momentarily silences Bella.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 39.
A28 CONTINUED: A28
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
I dont want you to answer that. I
just want you to think about your
answer. Because I dont want you
to be alone. Now or ever.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Well beat this together?
JACK CRAWFORD
(shakes his head no)
This is your fight. But Im in your
corner and Im not going anywhere.
Her smile is soft but forced.
BELLA CRAWFORD
I appreciate that, Jack. But Im
not comforted by it. I know thats
what you need. To comfort me. But
I cant give you what you need.
JACK CRAWFORD
Dont worry about what I need.
(then)
Why wouldnt you tell me?
She slowly circles her answer. Finally:
BELLA CRAWFORD
Thought if I kept it to myself our
lives wouldnt change. I didnt
count on changing as much as I did.
OFF Jack Crawford taking that in...
CUT TO:
WILL GRAHAM
He walks down the hall, navigating the corridors of...
B28 INT. B.A.U. - HALLWAY - DAY 6 B28
Will continues to walk with purpose up to Jack Crawfords
closed door, considers, then knocks.
JACK CRAWFORD (O.C.)
Come in.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 40.
A28 CONTINUED: (2) A28
28 INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORDS OFFICE - DAY 6 28
Jack Crawford sits behind his desk, cupping his forehead in
his hands as Will Graham ENTERS and quietly takes a seat.
JACK CRAWFORD
What do you want, Will?
WILL GRAHAM
Im going to sit here until youre
ready to talk. You dont have to
say a word until youre ready, but
Im not leaving until you do.
A long, uncomfortable, anguish-filled moment, then:
CUT TO BLACK.
THE END
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 41.
Coquilles
Story by
Scott Nimerfro
Teleplay by
Scott Nimerfro
&
Bryan Fuller
Directed by
Guillermo Navarro
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Prod. #106/Air #105 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2012 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Jesse Alexander
Executive Producer: Chris Brancato
HANNIBAL
Coquilles
TEASER
CLOSE ON - A TERRINE OF FOIE GRAS
A spoon full of SAUCE is followed by a garnish.
1 INT. HANNIBALS HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT 1 1
JACK CRAWFORD and his beautiful wife BELLA CRAWFORD sit at
Hannibals table, their host preparing the next course.
Bella watches her husband take a drink of his wine, savoring
the flavor. He glances up, catching her looking, and when he
does, his smile is genuine, her smile is forced.
HANNIBAL enters carrying individual TERRINES OF FOIE GRAS.
HANNIBAL
A masterpiece foie gras Au torchon
with a late harvest Vidal sauce and
dry and fresh figs.
He places the terrines in front of the Crawfords.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Mrs. Crawford, your husband
introduced you as Bella. Are you
an Isabelle or an Annabelle?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Im a Phyllis. But Jack only calls
me Phyllis when we disagree.
HANNIBAL
So named Bella for your beauty?
JACK CRAWFORD
We were both stationed in Italy. I
was Army. She was NATO staff. The
Italian men called her Bella. But
I wanted her to be my Bella.
(takes a bite)
Cold foie gras with warm figs.
Bella eyes the Terrine of Foie Gras.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Would I be a horrible guest if I
skipped this course?
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
Too rich?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Too cruel.
JACK CRAWFORD
Phyllis.
HANNIBAL
First and worst sign of sociopathic
behavior -- cruelty to animals.
JACK CRAWFORD
That doesnt apply in the kitchen.
HANNIBAL
I have no taste for animal cruelty.
The goose, in this case the gander,
is not force fed. It eats only as
much as it chooses and only in its
natural environment.
(to Jack)
Would you like your wifes serving?
JACK CRAWFORD
Please.
HANNIBAL
At my table, just the cruel deserve
cruelty, Mrs. Crawford. Which is
why I employ an ethical butcher.
BELLA CRAWFORD
An ethical butcher? Be kind to
animals and then eat them?
HANNIBAL
Im afraid I insist on it. No need
for unnecessary suffering. Human
emotions are gifts from our animal
ancestors. Cruelty is the gift
humanity has given itself.
JACK CRAWFORD
The gift that keeps giving.
Hannibal leans over Bella, pouring more wine into her glass.
HANNIBAL
Your perfume is exquisite, similar
to the aroma on the air just after
lightning strikes. Is it Jar?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 2.
1 CONTINUED: 1
(CONTINUED)
BELLA CRAWFORD
Youve got some nose, Doctor.
HANNIBAL
I first noticed my keen sense of
smell when I was a young man. I
was aware one of my teachers had
stomach cancer even before he did.
JACK CRAWFORD
Makes an effective parlor trick.
An almost imperceptible reaction from Bella Crawford.
Exactly the effect Hannibal was trying to achieve. Then:
HANNIBAL
Our next course is roasted pork
shank. And I assure you, Bella, it
was an especially supercilious pig.
CUT TO:
A HOOF
It ENTERS FRAME with an ominous, scraping CLACK. We are --
2 EXT. LONELY ROAD - NIGHT 1 2
The BLACK STAG slowly lumbers down the vacant rural road.
CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL it is walking directly behind...
WILL GRAHAM
His eyes are glassy and vacant. Hes clad in boxers and a
white t-shirt, coming directly from bed. He walks on the
gravel, barefoot, seemingly unaware of the BEAST behind him.
Will Graham looks up at the BRIGHT MOON overhead, his
HEARTBEAT and CIRCULATORY SYSTEM a DIN in his ears.
He stops, swaying ever so slightly at his ankles. The BLACK
STAG slows to a stop. Its SNOUT nudges Wills arm, dangling
at his side. Will doesnt react, his arm only barely moves.
WILLS P.O.V. - THE ROAD
It stretches into the night in front of Will, VIBRATING IN
AND OUT OF FOCUS as BEAMS OF LIGHT cut through the darkness.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 3.
1 CONTINUED: (2) 1
(CONTINUED)
ON WILL GRAHAM
He instinctively holds up his arm to shield his eyes from the
glare of the BRIGHT HEADLIGHTS. CAMERA REVEALS they belong
to an approaching POLICE CAR. It rolls to a stop.
TWO POLICE OFFICERS step out of either side of A POLICE CAR.
POLICE OFFICER
Are you lost?
WILL GRAHAM
What?
POLICE OFFICER
Whats your name?
WILL GRAHAM
Will Graham
POLICE OFFICER
You know where you are, Mr. Graham?
WILL GRAHAM
No.
POLICE OFFICER
Where do you live?
WILL GRAHAM
Wolf Trap, Virginia.
POLICE OFFICER
Were in Wolf Trap. So thats
good. Youre close to home.
(then)
Is that yours?
Will Graham slowly glances over to see, not the BLACK STAG of
his nightmare, but the tail-wagging concern of WINSTON.
WILL GRAHAM
Hi, Winston.
Winston can barely contain himself, worried about Will. As
his dog nudges Will, he becomes aware he is in mild pain.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
Can I sit down? My feet hurt.
POLICE OFFICER
Why dont we take you home?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 4.
2 CONTINUED: 2
3 MOMENTS LATER - BACK OF COP CAR 3
Will slides in followed immediately thereafter by Winston. A
standard-issue wool blanket wrapped around his shoulders,
Will plucks gravel out of his feet while trying to keep
Winston from licking his wounds and his face. One of the
POLICE OFFICERS hover over him, flashlights shining politely.
POLICE OFFICER
Are you on any drugs, medications?
Prescription or otherwise?
WILL GRAHAM
No.
POLICE OFFICER
Have you been drinking?
WILL GRAHAM
No. Yes. Not excessively. I had
two fingers of whiskey before bed.
POLICE OFFICER
Do you have a history of
sleepwalking, Mr. Graham?
WILL GRAHAM
(shakes his head no)
Im not even sure Im awake now.
PLINK. PLINK. PLINK. The PRE-LAPPING sound of...
AN ICE MACHINE
CUBES OF ICE drop one by one, falling onto a larger pile of
ice in a hypnotic fashion. We are --
4 EXT. THE WELCOME INN MOTEL - ICE MACHINE - DAY 2 4
CAMERA PULLS BACK TO FIND the back of a LONE MAN standing at
the Ice Machine, a sheen of sweat coating the nape of his
neck (NOTE: We do not see his face).
A FAMILY OF THREE (MAN, WOMAN, CHILD) shuffles by juggling
their suitcases. The Lone Man scoops ice into his bucket to
not draw attention to himself, glancing at the Family.
LONE MANS P.O.V.
The CHILD smiles and the Lone Man looks away. The Woman
draws the child closer, protective but not too obvious.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 5.
(CONTINUED)
OMNISCIENT P.O.V.
The Lone Man returns his attention to the PLINK-PLINK-PLINK
of the Ice Machine. He slowly turns to see A COUPLE who we
will call MR. and MRS. ANDERSON emerging from their room and
walking toward the Ice Machine with a bucket.
As they approach, the LONE MAN quickly starts scooping up ice
into his bucket. Hes apparently afraid to look at Mr. and
Mrs. Anderson, but cant help himself.
LONE MANS P.O.V.
The flesh of Mr. and Mrs. Andersons face and hands are
monstrously DISTORTED, RIPPLING trails of HEAT emanate from
their bodies as his skin ROILS WITH FLAME.
Demonic... hallucinogenic...
The Lone Man averts his eyes toward...
THE BUCKET OF ICE
The reflective fire of the approaching COUPLE flickers off
the ice. OFF the ice beginning to melt...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 6.
4 CONTINUED: 4
ACT ONE
5 EXT. HANNIBALS HOUSE - EARLY MORNING 2 5
ESTABLISHING. A CHRYON tell us we are --
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND
CLOSE ON - VACUUM COFFEE MAKER
The VAPOR PRESSURE of the water in the lower chamber pushes
water up into the higher chamber, through the coffee grounds.
We are --
6 INT. HANNIBALS KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING 2 6
Hannibal wears his bathrobe, having been roused from sleep.
Will stands nearby, fully clothed, relatively bright eyed.
HANNIBAL
Although I may be, is it safe to
assume youre not sleepwalking now?
WILL GRAHAM
Im sorry its so early.
HANNIBAL
Never apologize for coming to me.
Office hours are for patients. My
kitchen is always open to friends.
Hannibal hands Will a cup of coffee.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Onset of sleepwalking in adulthood
is less common than in children.
WILL GRAHAM
Could it be a seizure?
HANNIBAL
Id argue good old-fashioned post
traumatic stress. Jack Crawford has
gotten your hands very dirty.
WILL GRAHAM
Wasnt forced back into the field.
HANNIBAL
I wouldnt say forced. Manipulated
would be the word Id choose.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 7.
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
I can handle it.
HANNIBAL
Somewhere between denying horrible
events and calling them out lies
the truth of psychological trauma.
WILL GRAHAM
So I cant handle it?
HANNIBAL
Your experience mayve overwhelmed
ordinary functions that give you a
sense of control.
WILL GRAHAM
If my body is walking around
without my permission, youd say
thats a loss of control?
HANNIBAL
Wouldnt you?
(then)
Sleepwalkers demonstrate a
difficulty handling aggression.
Are you experiencing difficulty
with aggressive feelings?
Will thinks long and hard about that, then:
WILL GRAHAM
You said Jack sees me as fine china
used for special guests. Beginning
to feel more like an old mug.
HANNIBAL
You entered into a Devils Bargain
with Jack Crawford. Takes a toll.
WILL GRAHAM
Jacks not the devil.
HANNIBAL
When it comes to how far hes
willing to push you to get what he
wants, Jacks certainly no saint.
OFF Will taking that in...
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 8.
6 CONTINUED: 6
7 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY 2 7
Hannibal OPENS his door to find BELLA CRAWFORD sitting in his
waiting room, beautiful even in repose.
HANNIBAL
Mrs. Crawford. Please come in.
8 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - DAY 2 8
Hannibal sits opposite BELLA CRAWFORD.
HANNIBAL
How often do you see him?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Twice a week at first. Now its
usually just once.
HANNIBAL
Youre satisfied then?
BELLA CRAWFORD
(shrugs)
Enough to keep seeing him.
HANNIBAL
Your intention is not to tell Jack.
BELLA CRAWFORD
I dont know what good it will do.
It would just be complaining. I
dont complain. Makes it easier to
be intolerant of complainers.
HANNIBAL
Youre allowed to complain.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Ill complain to you. Jack sees
the world at its worst. Dont need
him seeing me at mine. He already
has too much to worry about.
HANNIBAL
He has room for one more worry.
(then)
Seems like youre protecting him.
BELLA CRAWFORD
I am.
Bella heaves a sigh, knowing what is ahead.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 9.
(CONTINUED)
BELLA CRAWFORD (CONTD)
Ive had dinner at your home. You
have a professional relationship
with my husband. Theres no
conflict of interest me being here?
Hannibal smiles, appreciates the attempt at deflection.
HANNIBAL
Its unorthodox but not unheard of.
(then, sobering)
Given the nature of your problem,
seeing someone who knows Jack
removes some of the guesswork.
BELLA CRAWFORD
This all started as some misguided
stab at maintaining my dignity.
HANNIBAL
Nothing undignified about this.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Not yet, but I have indignity to
look forward to, dont I?
HANNIBAL
Only indignity I see is resentment.
Why do you resent your husband?
BELLA CRAWFORD
I resent that Jack has too much to
worry about to worry about me.
HANNIBAL
Thats your choice, not his.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Maybe you should see us both for
couples counseling.
HANNIBAL
Id recommend another psychiatrist
for couples. I wouldnt want you
to have the home couch advantage.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Its hard enough dealing with how I
feel about all this. Dont need to
deal with how Jack feels about it.
OFF Hannibal, curious to look into Jack Crawfords life...
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 10.
8 CONTINUED: 8
9 EXT. THE WELCOME INN MOTEL - DAY 2 9
A bungalow-style travel lodge in its seedy, ramshackle
heyday. A CHYRON TELLS US WE ARE --
TRENTON, NEW JERSEY
Jack Crawford and Will Graham move through the gauntlet of
shell-shocked LOCAL POLICE OFFICERS and F.B.I. AGENTS milling
about CORONERS VANS and POLICE CARS.
JACK CRAWFORD
Room was registered to John Smith,
along with every other room here.
WILL GRAHAM
Appalling failure of imagination.
JACK CRAWFORD
They paid with cash. No security
cameras on the premises. The motel
practically advertises it.
WILL GRAHAM
John Smith one of the victims?
JACK CRAWFORD
Mr. and Mrs. Anderson according to
the register. Mutilated,
displayed. Thought it might be the
Chesapeake Ripper but no surgical
trophies were taken.
(then)
I need you to prepare yourself.
WILL GRAHAM
Im prepared.
JACK CRAWFORD
Prepare yourself some more. Its
soup in there.
WILL GRAHAM
Soup isnt good for the soul.
JACK CRAWFORD
Not this soup. No jurisdictional
rivalry here. Local Police
practically begged us to take it.
Off Wills haze, Jack snaps fingers to get Wills attention.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 11.
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
Wheres your head?
WILL GRAHAM
On my pillow. I didnt sleep.
JACK CRAWFORD
Got just the thing to wake you up.
10 INT. THE WELCOME INN MOTEL - MOTEL ROOM - DAY 2 10
Jack Crawford and Will Graham ENTER to find BRIAN ZELLER
taking photographs of the crime scene.
THE DEATH TABLEAU
TWO BODIES, one male, one female, kneel on either side of the
bed. The FLESH OF THEIR BACKS has been cut down the middle,
each side peeled back in a LARGE FLAP, which rise
outstretched like WINGS. Hooks in the skin tied to hooks in
the ceiling and walls with FISHING LINE SPREAD the wings.
Wrists are bound in front of them also with FISHING LINE,
raised in mock prayer. VICTIMS heads loll on their necks.
Zeller photographs the dorsal wounds of the victims as
BEVERLY KATZ navigates the fishing line to take samples from
the crumpled bed sheets that were clearly slept in.
JIMMY PRICE is dusting an OPEN BOTTLE OF SCOTCH and THREE
GLASSES on a small table for fingerprints, one is still full.
WILL GRAHAM
Okay. Im awake.
JACK CRAWFORD
Hooks were bored into the ceiling.
Fishing line was used to hold up
the bodies and parts of bodies.
BEVERLY KATZ
Least we know hes a fisherman.
JIMMY PRICE
And or a Viking.
BRIAN ZELLER
Vikings do this?
JIMMY PRICE
Vikings do a lot of things.
Discovered America 500 years before
Columbus. Well, discovered Canada.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 12.
9 CONTINUED: 9
(CONTINUED)
BEVERLY KATZ
Canada is America.
JIMMY PRICE
Vikings would execute Christians by
breaking their ribs and bending
them back so they looked like
wings. Then theyd rip out their
lungs. Called it a Blood Eagle.
WILL GRAHAM
Pagans mocking the God Fearing.
JACK CRAWFORD
Whos mocking who here?
WILL GRAHAM
Hes not mocking them. Hes
transforming them.
BEVERLY KATZ
I dont know if it was a good
nights sleep, but he slept here.
Hair on the pillow and the sheets
are still damp. Hes a sweater.
WILL GRAHAM
Madness slept here last night.
Beverly indicates the small pool of vomit on the edge of the
bed washing onto the night stand.
BEVERLY KATZ
He threw up on the night stand.
JACK CRAWFORD
Couldnt stomach what he did? Flop
sweat and nervous indigestion.
WILL GRAHAM
Not nervous. Righteous. Thinks hes
elevating them somehow, making them
better than how he saw them. I need
a plastic sheet to cover the bed.
11 INT. THE WELCOME INN MOTEL - MOTEL ROOM - MOMENTS LATER 11
A RUBBER EVIDENCE SHEET covers the entire bed, creating a
barrier to evidence tampering. Will Graham lays back on the
bed, glancing down at the man-made monsters at his feet.
Will Graham takes a breath, exhales.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 13.
10 CONTINUED: 10
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
This is not who you are. You are
more now than what you were.
A PENDULUM
It swings in the darkness of Wills mind. FWUM. FWUM. FWUM.
WILLS P.O.V.
The PENDULUM arcs through FRAME, wiping away in its wake the
gush of BLOOD STAINS on the bed. FWUM. The PENDULUM swings
again, wiping away the fishing wire and the hooks. FWUM.
The PENDULUM ARCS REVEALING the MALE and FEMALE VICTIMS are
now pre-skinning, kneeling in supplication by the bed.
ON WILL GRAHAM
He watches with restrained awe as he narrates:
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
This is my gift to you.
WILLS P.O.V.
The Male and Female Victims backs simultaneously SPLIT AND
OPEN, UNFOLDING INTO OUTSTRETCHED WINGS in one graceful,
elegant, horrifying movement. BACKLIT FISHING LINES extend
from the WINGS like BIBLICAL RAYS OF LIGHT.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
I allow you to be Angels.
ON WILL GRAHAM
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
Now I lay me down to sleep.
OFF Will closing his eyes...
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 14.
11 CONTINUED: 11
ACT TWO
OVERHEAD ANGLE - TWO BLOOD EAGLES
At this vantage point the WINGED-CORPSES of MR. and MRS.
ANDERSON appear to hover over stainless steel slabs.
BEVERLY KATZ
Death makes angels of us all...
We are --
12 INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY 2 12
Beverly Katz runs a small PLASTIC TOOL along the flap of skin
hanging off the exposed muscle of Mrs. Andersons back.
Brian Zeller carefully removes the fish hooks one by one,
dropping them into a pan with a PLINK... PLINK... PLINK.
BEVERLY KATZ
...and gives us wings where we had
shoulders smooth as ravens claws.
BRIAN ZELLER
Robert Frost.
WILL GRAHAM
Jim Morrison.
BEVERLY KATZ
Even a drunk with a flair for the
dramatic can convince himself hes
God. Or the Lizard King.
JIMMY PRICE
God makes angels. Jesus was fond
of Fisherman. Are we going hard
core Judeo-Christian upsetting or
just upsetting in general.
WILL GRAHAM
This is a very specific upsetting.
BRIAN ZELLER
Increase of serotonin in the wounds
is much higher than the free
histamines so she lived for about
15 minutes after she was skinned.
Jimmy Price ENTERS from his WORK BAY, having just identified:
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 15.
(CONTINUED)
JIMMY PRICE
The powder residue on the neck of
the soda bottle was Vecuronium.
Scotchn sodan a paralytic agent.
BRIAN ZELLER
Had them kneeling in supplication
at the feet of G dash D.
JIMMY PRICE
Supplication is the most common
form of prayer. Gimme-gimme-gimme.
WILL GRAHAM
They werent praying to him. They
were praying for him. Hes afraid.
BEVERLY KATZ
What is somebody who could do
something like this afraid of?
Several answers fly through Wills mind, but the clearest is:
WILL GRAHAM
Hes dying.
(then)
Whats in his vomit?
BEVERLY KATZ
(off Toxicology report)
Dexamethasone... kepra...
BRIAN ZELLER
He was epileptic. Radiation?
BEVERLY KATZ
Gamma four.
BRIAN ZELLER
Steroids for inflammation. Anticonvulsants for seizures.
Radiation from chemotherapy.
(then)
Our guy has a brain tumor.
WILL GRAHAM
Hes afraid of dying in his sleep.
He makes Angels to watch over him.
13 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - NIGHT 2 13
Hannibal stands over Will on the second floor, scanning the
shelves for a particular book on NEUROLOGY. He pulls it.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 16.
12 CONTINUED: 12
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
Theres no one and only spiritual
center of the brain. Any idea of
God comes from many areas of the
mind working together in unison.
Hannibal climbs down the ladder then tosses the book to Will.
WILL GRAHAM
(perusing the book)
Maybe Im wrong. How do you profile
someone who has an anomaly in their
head changing the way they think?
HANNIBAL
A tumor can definitely affect brain
function, even causing vivid
hallucinations. However, what
appears to be driving your Angel
Maker to create heaven on Earth is
a simple issue of mortality.
WILL GRAHAM
Cant beat God, become him.
HANNIBAL
You said he was afraid.
WILL GRAHAM
He feels abandoned.
HANNIBAL
Ever feel abandoned, Will?
WILL GRAHAM
Abandonment requires expectation.
HANNIBAL
What were your expectations of Jack
Crawford and the F.B.I.?
WILL GRAHAM
Jack hasnt abandoned me.
HANNIBAL
Not in any discernible way.
Perhaps in the way Gods abandon
their creations.
WILL GRAHAM
Well, this should be interesting.
(then)
Please proceed, Doctor.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 17.
13 CONTINUED: 13
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
Jack gave you his word he would
protect your head space. Yet he
leaves you to your mental devices.
WILL GRAHAM
Are you trying to alienate me from
Jack Crawford?
HANNIBAL
Im trying to help you understand
this Angel Maker you seek.
WILL GRAHAM
Help me understand how to catch him.
HANNIBAL
If he were a classic paranoid
schizophrenic, you might be able to
influence him to become visible.
WILL GRAHAM
Scare him out into the daylight.
HANNIBAL
Might even get him to hurt himself
if he hasnt already.
WILL GRAHAM
If he were self-destructive, he
wouldnt be so careful.
HANNIBAL
Unless hes being careful about his
self-destruction. Hes making
angels to pray over him when he
sleeps.
(then)
Who prays over us when we sleep?
OFF Will not knowing the answer to that question...
14 INT. JACK CRAWFORDS HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 2 14
Jack Crawford lies in the dark, staring at the ceiling. Bella
ENTERS and silently slips under the covers. A moment, then:
JACK CRAWFORD
Do you wait until I shut off my
light before you come to bed?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Not intentionally. Im working
late, nothing personal.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 18.
13 CONTINUED: (2) 13
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
Can we have a conversation or
should we go on pretending
everything is alright.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Everything is alright.
JACK CRAWFORD
Then no conversation.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Im just overwhelmed at the moment.
JACK CRAWFORD
With?
BELLA CRAWFORD
A lot going on with work, etcetera.
JACK CRAWFORD
I dont like etcetera.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Okay, then its work. I need to
sort through some things. Its
outside your jurisdiction, Jack.
JACK CRAWFORD
Im good at sorting through things.
Very least, I can underwhelm you
when youre feeling overwhelmed.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Youve never been able to
underwhelm me.
JACK CRAWFORD
Theres some confidential something
you cant share with me, that it?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Thats exactly it.
JACK CRAWFORD
Is there anything I can offer you
romantically, physically,
spiritually that can help you?
BELLA CRAWFORD
No.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 19.
14 CONTINUED: 14
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD
So what I can do for you as your
husband is to leave you alone and
not ask you questions.
BELLA CRAWFORD
You can ask me whatever you want.
JACK CRAWFORD
I wont insult you by asking if
theres someone else.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Thank you.
JACK CRAWFORD
Whatever youre sorting out, youll
sort it out and well go back to
being us or is this us now?
BELLA CRAWFORD
I dont want this to be us.
JACK CRAWFORD
I love you, Bella.
BELLA CRAWFORD
(to middle-distance)
I love you, too.
JACK CRAWFORD
When there is something I can do,
you promise to tell me?
BELLA CRAWFORD
I promise.
He takes her hand in the dark, but she doesnt look his way.
15 EXT. ABANDONED BUILDING - NIGHT 2 15
A moody evening, moonlight filtered through the hazy light
pollution hanging above the city. Scattered all around the
area are VARIOUS TENTS and sleeping bags suggesting a SHANTY
TOWN populated with HOMELESS.
A CHRYON tells us we are --
CLEVELAND, OHIO
CAMERA FINDS the back of a LONE MAN walking through the
SHANTY TOWN, a sheen of sweat coating the nape of his neck
(NOTE: We do not see his face).
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 20.
14 CONTINUED: (2) 14
(CONTINUED)
LONE MANS P.O.V.
He glances at the VARIOUS HOMELESS, paying them very little
attention. He looks upward, toward the sky, toward heaven,
taking a deep breath of the night air and exhaling.
There is a distant clopping SOUND of BOOTS on pavement. A
SECURITY GUARD is moving through the winding path that cuts
through the TENTS.
As the SECURITY GUARD approaches, the LONE MAN tenses at what
horror he sees.
LONE MANS P.O.V.
The flesh of the SECURITY GUARDs face and hands is
monstrously DISTORTED, RIPPLING trails of HEAT emanate from
his body as his skin ROILS WITH FLAME.
Demonic... hallucinogenic...
OMNISCIENT P.O.V.
The LONE MANs head turns to follow the Security Guard (not
demonic, not distorted, not flaming) as he approaches.
LONE MAN
I see what you are.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 21.
15 CONTINUED: 15
ACT THREE
ON WILL GRAHAM
He approaches what appears to be an altar on high. CAMERA
PULLS BACK TO REVEAL he is staring at a man-made ANGEL made
from a man. We are --
16 INT. ABANDONED BUILDING - EARLY MORNING 3 16
A CORPSE of a MAN has been mounted on scaffolding covered in
plastic sheets creating a divine luminescing from behind.
Lines of blood streaking the transparent plastic sheets serve
as a corona of sorts emanating down from the angel wings.
Beneath the ANGEL CORPSE, a crumpled, stained mattress.
Will is captivated as Jack Crawford approaches. Brian
Zeller, Beverly Katz and Jimmy Price don their gloves.
JACK CRAWFORD
Why angels?
WILL GRAHAM
It isnt Biblical. His angels have
wings. In sculpture and paintings,
angels fly, but not in the Bible.
JACK CRAWFORD
Hes drawing from secular sources.
WILL GRAHAM
His mind has turned against him and
theres no one there to help.
Brian Zeller carefully picks up a pair of SEVERED TESTICLES.
JIMMY PRICE
Are those? What are those?
BRIAN ZELLER
Someone got an orchiectomy cheap.
Beverly shines her flashlight at the SECURITY GUARDS crotch.
BEVERLY KATZ
Doesnt look like the victim.
JIMMY PRICE
The Angel Maker?
BEVERLY KATZ
He castrated himself?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 22.
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
Hes not just making angels, hes
getting ready to become one.
(off their looks)
Angels dont have genitalia.
JIMMY PRICE
Save me a place in hell.
JACK CRAWFORD
He was afraid of dying and now hes
getting used to the idea?
WILL GRAHAM
Hes accepted it or hes
bargaining.
BRIAN ZELLER
Some bargaining chips.
JACK CRAWFORD
Does that mean hes done making
angels or just getting started.
WILL GRAHAM
I dont know.
JACK CRAWFORD
Hes not just killing when he gets
sleepy. How is he choosing them?
WILL GRAHAM
I dont know. Ask him.
JACK CRAWFORD
Im asking you.
WILL GRAHAM
Youre the head of the Behavioral
Science Unit, Jack. Why dont you
come up with your own answers if
you dont like mine.
A stillness washes over Zeller, Price and Katz with Wills
blatant disrespect. Jack locks Will with a cold stare:
JACK CRAWFORD
I didnt hear that.
WILL GRAHAM
No, you didnt. Im sorry.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 23.
16 CONTINUED: 16
(CONTINUED)
Embarrassed by his outburst, Will wonders back over to the
angel to collect his thoughts. Jack watches him go.
17 INT. B.A.U. - MORGUE - DAY 3 17
Will stands between the corpses of MR. and MRS. ANDERSON, as
alone in the work bay as he is in his head. Beverly ENTERS
and leans on the morgue drawer, studying Will.
BEVERLY KATZ
Ive never seen anybody talk to
Jack the way you talked to Jack.
WILL GRAHAM
I was out of line.
BEVERLY KATZ
You were out of your mind. My ears
rang like they did the first time I
heard my mom say the f-word.
(then)
Are you okay? I know its a stupid
thing to ask considering that none
of us could possibly be okay doing
what we do. But are you okay?
WILL GRAHAM
Do I seem different?
BEVERLY KATZ
Youre a little different. Youve
always been a little different.
Brilliant strategy. No one knows
when theres something up with you.
WILL GRAHAM
How would I know if there was
something up with you?
BEVERLY KATZ
You wouldnt. But I would tell you
if you asked me. Return the favor?
Before Will can answer:
JIMMY PRICE (O.S.)
Would the real Mr. and Mrs.
Anderson please stand up.
Will looks up as Jimmy Price ENTERS with a file. The moment
with Beverly is momentarily shattered.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 24.
16 CONTINUED: (2) 16
(CONTINUED)
JIMMY PRICE (CONTD)
No? Meet Roger & Marilyn Brunner.
May recognize them from such lists
as Most Wanted. He likes to rape
and murder. She likes to watch.
Jimmy hands the file to Will, who quickly looks it over.
JIMMY PRICE (CONTD)
We have a DNA match. They
falsified the motel registry and
were driving a stolen car, so it
took a second to identify them.
WILL GRAHAM
I wonder how long it took Angel
Maker to identify them. He didnt
choose them randomly.
Jimmy hands Beverly another report.
JIMMY PRICE
He knows something about them. The
murdered Security Guard wasnt
actually a Security Guard, which
Id say means he was up to no good.
BEVERLY KATZ
Could Angel Maker be a vigilante?
WILL GRAHAM
Vigilantes are pragmatic,
purposeful. They dont lay down
and go to sleep under their crimes.
In his mind, hes doing Gods work.
BEVERLY KATZ
That spells vigilante.
WILL GRAHAM
Playing God has advantages. One of
them is never having to be alone.
BEVERLY KATZ
So he makes Angels out of demons.
JIMMY PRICE
How does he know theyre demons?
WILL GRAHAM
He doesnt have to know. All he
has to do is believe.
OFF Will...
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 25.
17 CONTINUED: 17
18 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - DAY 3 18
Bella Crawford takes a deep breath, sitting opposite
Hannibal. He allows her to gather her thoughts, then:
HANNIBAL
Has Jack begun to suspect? He is a
behavioral specialist. He must know
youre keeping something from him.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Oh, he knows. He asked me if I was
having an affair by reassuring me
he didnt have to ask.
HANNIBAL
I doubt he believes youre
unfaithful.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Why do you doubt that?
HANNIBAL
Its clear you love your husband.
That hits Bella harder than Hannibal thought. She deflects:
BELLA CRAWFORD
Women who love their husbands still
find reasons to cheat on them.
HANNIBAL
Not you. Yet you seem more betrayed
by Jack than your own body.
BELLA CRAWFORD
I dont feel betrayed by Jack. And
theres no point being mad at
cancer for being cancer.
HANNIBAL
Sure there is.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Cancer isnt cruel. A tiny cell
wanders off from my liver and gets
lost. It finds its way into my
lungs where its just trying to do
its job and grow a liver.
HANNIBAL
What its growing and where its
growing it will likely kill you.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 26.
(CONTINUED)
BELLA CRAWFORD
Not likely. It will kill me. And
no amount of blueberries and
antioxidants can change that now.
HANNIBAL
But you hold Jack accountable for
his inability to cure cancer.
(off her look)
Should I have said his inability to
save you? That be more accurate?
BELLA CRAWFORD
I am slowly shrinking while that
tiny thing keeps growing larger
every day, but I feel... fine.
HANNIBAL
Youll feel fine up until the
precise moment you dont.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Its really a very dull story,
isnt it? The ending is always the
same and that same is that it ends.
HANNIBAL
So you withdraw from your
relationship with the man who
strolled along the quays of Livorno,
Italy and called you Bella.
BELLA CRAWFORD
The cancer is already withdrawing
me from our relationship. And
everything else. Maybe itll be
easier for Jack this way.
HANNIBAL
Why? Hes losing you twice.
BELLA CRAWFORD
You said you could smell the
cancer. What did it smell like?
Hannibal considers his answers, then chooses the most honest:
HANNIBAL
Death.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 27.
18 CONTINUED: 18
19 INT. WILL GRAHAMS HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 3 19
Will lies in bed, staring at the ceiling as the ALARM CLOCK
blinks from 11:31 PM to 3:45 AM. Will doesnt close his eyes.
Finally, his eyelids slowly close under their own weight.
CLOSE ON WILLS CLOSED EYES
A distant, muffled BARKING slowly rouses him to consciousness
and Will OPENS HIS EYES. CAMERA REVEALS WE ARE --
20 EXT. WILL GRAHAMS HOUSE - EARLY MORNING 4 20
Will stands on the roof in his underwear. His DOGS BARKING
at him through the open window he apparently crawled through.
OFF Wills growing concern for his new condition...
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 28.
ACT FOUR
ON THE LIP OF AN ASPIRIN BOTTLE
Several TABLETS are shaken into the palm of Wills hand.
We are --
21 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - EVENING 4 21
Will takes THREE ASPIRIN TABLETS from his palm and slings
them back, chasing with a glass of water. Hannibal observes:
HANNIBAL
Its hard to lie still and fear
going to sleep when its there to
think about. You listen to your
breathing in the dark and the tiny
clicks of your blinking eyes.
Will paces, avoiding the patient hot seat.
WILL GRAHAM
I dream more now than I used to.
HANNIBAL
Your dreams were the one place you
could be physically safe
relinquishing control. Not anymore.
WILL GRAHAM
I thought about zipping myself into
a sleeping bag before I go to
sleep, but it sounds too much like
a poor mans straight jacket.
The STATUE OF THE BLACK STAG near the Patient EXIT draws
Wills attention. He walks toward it.
HANNIBAL
Have you determined how this Angel
Maker is choosing his victims?
WILL GRAHAM
He doesnt see people how everyone
else sees them. He can tell if
youre naughty or nice. Or he
thinks he can.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 29.
(CONTINUED)
HANNIBAL
God has given this Angel Maker
insight into the souls of man?
WILL GRAHAM
God didnt give him insight. Gave
him a tumor. Hes just a man whose
brain is playing tricks on him.
HANNIBAL
Youre not unlike this killer.
WILL GRAHAM
My brain is playing tricks on me?
HANNIBAL
You want to feel such sweet and
easy peace. The Angel Maker wants
that same peace. He hopes to feel
his way cautiously inside it and
find it is endless all around him.
WILL GRAHAM
Hes going to be disappointed.
HANNIBAL
You accept the impossibility of
such a feeling. Whereas the Angel
Maker is still chasing it.
Hannibal crosses to study him as he studies the stag.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
If he got close to it, thats where
he would look for it again.
WILL GRAHAM
Ive been trying to reconstruct his
thinking, find his patterns.
HANNIBAL
Instead you find yourself in a
behavior pattern you cant break.
You realize you have a choice.
WILL GRAHAM
What is it?
HANNIBAL
Angel Maker will be destroyed by
whats happening inside his head.
You dont have to be.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 30.
21 CONTINUED: 21
(CONTINUED)
Hannibal stands behind Will, his NOSTRILS FLARE as CAMERA
SLOWLY PUSHES IN on the back of Wills neck.
WILL GRAHAM
Did you just smell me?
HANNIBAL
Difficult to avoid. I really must
introduce you to a finer after
shave. That smells like something
with a ship on the bottle.
WILL GRAHAM
I keep getting it for Christmas.
HANNIBAL
Have your headaches gotten any
worse lately? More frequent?
WILL GRAHAM
Yes, actually.
HANNIBAL
Id change the after shave.
OFF Hannibal realizing there is more to Wills problems than
he knows. But Dr. Lecters nose knows...
CUT TO:
DRIVERS LICENSE ON A DATA PADD
Its a TRUCK DRIVING PERMIT for ELLIOT BUDISH. We are --
22 INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORDS OFFICE - DAY 5 22
Brian Zeller slides the Data Padd across the desk to Jack
Crawford, who gives it a quick once over.
BRIAN ZELLER
Elliot Budish. 35-year-old truck
driver. Got a fishing license, too.
Match came from the national cancer
data base. Married, two children.
Family hasnt seen him in 4 months.
He was diagnosed 5 months ago.
JACK CRAWFORD
Meet the Angel Maker.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 31.
21 CONTINUED: (2) 21
23 INT. B.A.U. - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY 5 23
Jack Crawford and Will Graham sit opposite EMMA BUDISH (30s),
a slightly anxious woman unsure why she is here.
JACK CRAWFORD
Has he contacted you since he left?
EMMA
I left him. And no, he hasnt.
JACK CRAWFORD
Why did you leave?
EMMA
Because of his cancer. Makes me
sound like a horrible wife.
JACK CRAWFORD
Sure you had your reasons.
EMMA
I took a leave from work to be with
him. I wanted to be there for him.
But what he wanted was to be alone.
As she speaks, CAMERA PUSHES IN ON Jack, who is coming to the
unfortunate realization he and Emma have something in common.
EMMA (CONTD)
He kept pulling away and pulling
away. He made it clear he didnt
want me there. Then it wasnt
clear. Then it didnt matter why
he was acting the way he was.
Will watches as Jack pours himself a glass of water and
drinks, mind spinning. Will realizes he has to pick up the
baton of the interrogation as Jack is clearly suddenly
distracted.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 32.
(CONTINUED)
EMMA (CONTD)
It was weird for the kids. What
kind of mother exposes her children
to someone whos losing their mind.
WILL GRAHAM
Was he ever violent, Mrs. Budish?
Her hesitation suggests more than a yes or no answer.
EMMA
He was angry. Never hit me or the
boys. I thought when he got weak
enough, when the cancer got worse,
it wouldnt be confusing for them.
They could just see him as a sick
man, and not someone so terrified.
WILL GRAHAM
Did your husbands faith falter
after he was told about the cancer.
EMMA
Eric wasnt ever religious. Is he
doing something religious?
WILL GRAHAM
He may believe he is.
JACK CRAWFORD
Your husbands dying, Mrs. Budish.
Soon. We want to find him before
he hurts himself or anyone else.
The words coming out of Jacks mouth have a larger import
than they did only moments ago.
EMMA
He died once before. Suffocated in
a fire when he was a little boy.
Fireman who resuscitated him said
he mustve had a guardian angel.
WILL GRAHAM
Where did this happen?
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 33.
23 CONTINUED: 23
(CONTINUED)
EMMA
A farm where he grew up.
A24 OMITTED. A24
B24 OMITTED. B24
24 EXT. BARN - DAY 5 24
Will Graham and Jack Crawford stomp through the dead grass as
they approach. TWO LOCAL POLICE CARS and their POLICE
OFFICERS wait in the background.
25 INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS 25
CAMERA FOLLOWS Will Graham and Jack Crawford through a
rolling slatted wood door REVEALING another ANGEL OF DEATH
hanging in the rafters, illuminated by shafts of light.
A stunned moment as Will and Jack take in the horrific image.
Jack heaves an annoyed sigh at another life lost.
WILL GRAHAM
This will be the last one.
Jacks FLASHLIGHT BEAM flickers across the Angels face --
its the same face on the Drivers License seen earlier.
JACK CRAWFORD
Its Budish?
WILL GRAHAM
He made himself into an angel.
Dripping blood from the flesh of his wings draws Will closer.
Jack crosses to the BARN DOOR and shouts to the LOCAL POLICE
OFFICERS waiting in the distant field.
JACK CRAWFORD
Get the Coroner down here.
Will watches Elliot Budishs angelic form from a safe
distance.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 34.
23 CONTINUED: (2) 23
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
It wasnt God, wasnt man, it was
his choice to die.
JACK CRAWFORD
His choice?
WILL GRAHAM
As much as he could make it.
JACK CRAWFORD
You feeling a shortage of choices?
WILL GRAHAM
I dont know how much longer I can
be all that useful to you, Jack.
JACK CRAWFORD
Really? You caught three. The
last three we had, you caught.
WILL GRAHAM
I didnt catch this one. Elliot
Budish surrendered.
Frustrated, Jack turns to walk out of the barn...
JACK CRAWFORD
Im used to not getting information
from my wife. I dont need to not
get information from you, too.
...but Wills confession stops Jack on the threshold:
WILL GRAHAM
Its getting harder and harder to
make myself look.
JACK CRAWFORD
No one is asking you to look alone.
WILL GRAHAM
But I am looking alone. And you
know what looking at this does.
JACK CRAWFORD
I know what happens when you dont
look. So do you.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 35.
25 CONTINUED: 25
(CONTINUED)
WILL GRAHAM
I can make myself look but the
thinking is shutting down.
JACK CRAWFORD
What is it about this one?
WILL GRAHAM
Its not this one. Its all of
them. Its the next one. Its the
one I know is coming after that.
JACK CRAWFORD
I dont think you want to go back
to your lecture hall and read about
the next one on TattleCrime.com.
WILL GRAHAM
No, I dont. But that may be what
I have to do. This is bad for me.
JACK CRAWFORD
Im not the pope, Im not going to
tell you what you ought to do --
WILL GRAHAM
Sounds like thats exactly what
youre going to do.
JACK CRAWFORD
You go back to your classroom and
theres more killing that you could
have prevented, it will sour that
classroom forever.
WILL GRAHAM
Maybe. Then maybe I find a job as
a diesel mechanic in a boatyard.
Jack Crawford studies Will without saying anything, then
abruptly turns and walks out of the barn, leaving Will alone.
JACK CRAWFORD
If you want to quit, quit.
Will stands there a moment, stung and reeling from the
confrontation, debating on how to proceed.
CAMERA REVEALS Elliot Budish is no longer hanging in the
rafters, but is standing within arms reach of Will.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 36.
25 CONTINUED: (2) 25
ACT FIVE
26 INT. BARN - DAY 5 26
As before. Will Graham turns to see that Elliot Budish is no
longer hanging from the rafters, but is now within reach.
ELLIOT BUDISH P.O.V.
Will turns to see his attacker, the flesh of his face and
hands is monstrously DISTORTED, RIPPLING trails of HEAT
emanate from his body as his skin ROILS WITH FLAME.
Demonic... hallucinogenic...
OMNISCIENT P.O.V.
Weak from the loss of blood from his self-inflicted wounds,
delirious from his tumor, Elliot Budish looks upon Will (not
demonic, not distorted, not flaming) and simply states:
ELLIOT BUDISH
I see what you are.
He stumbles forward, collapsing in apparent supplication on
the floor. Will isnt afraid, his hand calmly goes to his
gun as he slowly steps out of reach.
WILL GRAHAM
What do you see?
ELLIOT BUDISH
Inside. I can bring it out of you.
Will raises his gun, training it on Budish but not firing,
even as Budish advances. Will continues to back away.
WILL GRAHAM
Not all the way out.
Jack Crawford is silhouetted in the doorway.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 37.
(CONTINUED)
ELLIOT BUDISH
I will give you the majesty of your
Becoming.
Elliot Budish cant raise the knife to swipe, instead he
crumples in apparent supplication on the manger floor, his
hands in his lap, somewhat prayer-like. He goes still.
OFF Will and Jacks regard for the fallen angel...
CUT TO:
27 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - PRIVATE EXIT - DAY 6 27
Hannibal OPENS THE DOOR to usher Bella Crawford out. They
are both surprised to see Jack Crawford waiting for them.
HANNIBAL
Agent Crawford.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Hello, Jack.
JACK CRAWFORD
Doctor, you mind waiting in the
waiting room so my wife and I can
borrow your office for a moment?
HANNIBAL
Not at all.
ON HANNIBAL
He takes a seat in his waiting room. CAMERA PULLS BACK as
Jack Crawford closes the door. We are now --
A28 INT. HANNIBALS OFFICE - DAY 6 A28
Bella Crawford stands, her coat on, holding her purse, ready
to leave. Jack blinks, searches the room for his word.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Just dropping by on official
business... or did you follow me?
JACK CRAWFORD
I called your office. They said
you were at an appointment.
(then)
Thought you might be here.
Bella quickly puts the pieces together, realizing:
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 38.
26 CONTINUED: 26
(CONTINUED)
BELLA CRAWFORD
You know?
(off his nod)
I knew youd find out.
JACK CRAWFORD
When did you find out?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Twelve weeks ago. Lung cancer.
JACK CRAWFORD
You dont smoke.
BELLA CRAWFORD
The irony.
JACK CRAWFORD
Treatable?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Its Stage 4. And we know theres
no Stage 5, dont we?
JACK CRAWFORD
When were you going to tell me?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Far enough in the future that Im
really not prepared to have this
conversation right now.
JACK CRAWFORD
Were having it. Were you going to
wait until you started chemotherapy
and couldnt hide it anymore.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Dont know if I want chemotherapy.
JACK CRAWFORD
Do I have a say in this?
BELLA CRAWFORD
No, you do not.
Jack wishes he didnt respect that choice, but he does.
JACK CRAWFORD
Do you want to be alone?
The bluntness of his question momentarily silences Bella.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 39.
A28 CONTINUED: A28
(CONTINUED)
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
I dont want you to answer that. I
just want you to think about your
answer. Because I dont want you
to be alone. Now or ever.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Well beat this together?
JACK CRAWFORD
(shakes his head no)
This is your fight. But Im in your
corner and Im not going anywhere.
Her smile is soft but forced.
BELLA CRAWFORD
I appreciate that, Jack. But Im
not comforted by it. I know thats
what you need. To comfort me. But
I cant give you what you need.
JACK CRAWFORD
Dont worry about what I need.
(then)
Why wouldnt you tell me?
She slowly circles her answer. Finally:
BELLA CRAWFORD
Thought if I kept it to myself our
lives wouldnt change. I didnt
count on changing as much as I did.
OFF Jack Crawford taking that in...
CUT TO:
WILL GRAHAM
He walks down the hall, navigating the corridors of...
B28 INT. B.A.U. - HALLWAY - DAY 6 B28
Will continues to walk with purpose up to Jack Crawfords
closed door, considers, then knocks.
JACK CRAWFORD (O.C.)
Come in.
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 40.
A28 CONTINUED: (2) A28
28 INT. B.A.U. - JACK CRAWFORDS OFFICE - DAY 6 28
Jack Crawford sits behind his desk, cupping his forehead in
his hands as Will Graham ENTERS and quietly takes a seat.
JACK CRAWFORD
What do you want, Will?
WILL GRAHAM
Im going to sit here until youre
ready to talk. You dont have to
say a word until youre ready, but
Im not leaving until you do.
A long, uncomfortable, anguish-filled moment, then:
CUT TO BLACK.
THE END
HANNIBAL - PROD. #106 - GREEN Collated 4/27/13 41.
Takiawase
Written by
Scott Nimerfro
&
Bryan Fuller
Directed by
David Semel
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #204 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2014 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot
Executive Producer: Chris Brancato
Consulting Producer: Jesse Alexander 
HANNIBAL
"Takiawase"
TEASER
FADE IN:
CLOSE ON FISHING LINE
Nimble fingers tie the lines of leader and tippet, wrapping
the end of one line around the other.
WILL GRAHAM (O.S.)
Wrap the leader around the tippet.
Four, five, six times. Tuck the end
between the lines. Tighten. Trim.
The fingers produce a small pair of scissors and trim.
We are --
EXT. RIVER - DAY
CAMERA FINDS WILL GRAHAM wearing waders, thigh deep in water.
Will finishes tying the leader and the tippet together.
WILL GRAHAM (O.S.) (CONTD)
It's called a blood knot.
CAMERA reveals Will is talking to ABIGAIL HOBBS, also wearing
waders, standing next to him, watching him complete the knot.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
Your father taught you how to hunt.
I'm going to teach you how to fish.
ABIGAIL HOBBS
Same thing, isn't it? One you
lure, the other you stalk?
WILL GRAHAM
One you catch, the other you shoot.
ABIGAIL HOBBS
What are you trying to catch?
WILL GRAHAM
The one who caught you... and
didn't let you go.
ABIGAIL HOBBS
The one that got away.
WILL GRAHAM
Catch a fish once and it gets away,
it's a lot harder to catch again.
ABIGAIL HOBBS
Have to be smarter than the fish.
WILL GRAHAM
You have to connect to the fish.
The fish is in the current, you're
connected to the river. Have to be
still. Have to be close. Have to
think clearly, control your emotions
and act efficiently. Never let the
fish know you're fishing.
ABIGAIL HOBBS
Don't fishermen always lie about
what they catch? Or don't catch.
(then)
Everybody thinks you're lying about
the one that got away.
WILL GRAHAM
That's why I have to catch him.
ABIGAIL HOBBS
I hope you do.
Will gathers up his pole, ready to cast his line.
WILL GRAHAM
Last thing before casting a line:
name the bait on your hook after
somebody you cherished.
ABIGAIL HOBBS
So you can say good-bye?
WILL GRAHAM
If the person you name it after
cherished you, as the superstition
goes, you'll catch the fish.
Will casts the line and watches it plunk in the distance.
ABIGAIL HOBBS
What did you name it?
WILL GRAHAM
Abigail.
MATCH CUT TO:
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 2.
INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - DAY
Will stands in the middle of his cell, or figuratively in the
currents of the river of his mind.
EXTREME CLOSE ON WILL'S EYE
The RIDGES OF HIS IRIS look like sand dunes. A KLAXON SOUNDS
down the corridor and Will's PUPIL FLUCTUATES.
MATCH CUT TO:
A CRIME SCENE PHOTOGRAPH - THE HUMAN MURAL
The bodies intertwined to reflect the ridges of an iris. The
REFLECTED MAN's body CIRCLED IN RED. CAMERA reveals we are --
INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - DAY
Will Graham holds the HUMAN MURAL CRIME SCENE PHOTO on one
side of the bars, while BEVERLY KATZ stands on the other.
BEVERLY KATZ
You were right. Killer was in the
mural. Just where you said he'd be.
WILL GRAHAM
The lion among the lambs.
BEVERLY KATZ
His name was James Gray. Found his
vehicle near the farm. Enough DNA
in the bed of his truck for us to
be confident he's the Muralist.
Will glances at a REPORT in the same file as the mural photo.
WILL GRAHAM
You found as much evidence on him
as you did on me.
BEVERLY KATZ
I'm glad you said it.
WILL GRAHAM
Who sewed him into the mural?
BEVERLY KATZ
We don't know. But clearly, he
didn't do it himself. He may have
had a partner. Another killer.
Maybe they had a suicide pact.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 3.
WILL GRAHAM
There was no partner. This
Muralist acted alone right up until
he was sewn into his own mural.
BEVERLY KATZ
No signs of a struggle.
WILL GRAHAM
Whoever he is, this second killer
understood the Muralist well enough
to find his canvas. Well enough to
convince him to be part of it.
He's charming and he's insightful.
BEVERLY KATZ
You have an idea who that might be?
WILL GRAHAM
I do.
BEVERLY KATZ
Please don't say, "Hannibal Lecter."
WILL GRAHAM
I'm saying Hannibal Lecter.
BEVERLY KATZ
Didn't you stop ringing that bell?
WILL GRAHAM
Not for you. And I'd appreciate if
you kept the ringing between us.
BEVERLY KATZ
God's sake, Will. I'd say you lost
your mind, but look where we are.
She indicates the cell block around her. Will doesn't blink.
WILL GRAHAM
I'm not asking you to believe
anything you can't prove. I'm just
asking you to prove it.
She considers the request a moment, then shakes her head.
BEVERLY KATZ
Hannibal Lecter has no reason--
WILL GRAHAM
That's exactly right. He has no
discernible reason other than his
own amusement and curiosity.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 4.
BEVERLY KATZ
That's hard to prove.
WILL GRAHAM
Whimsy. That's how you'll catch
him. There will be a very clever
detail to find on James Gray. He
wouldn't be able to resist.
Something that's probably been
overlooked. Something hidden.
BEVERLY KATZ
I'll look for clever details. But
I'm not looking for Hannibal.
WILL GRAHAM
As long as you're looking. You
look out there. I'll look in here.
INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL - DAY
Will Graham and DR. CHILTON.
WILL GRAHAM
I'll give you the same deal I gave
Beverly Katz. You know what it is.
You recorded our conversation. Or
are we pretending that you didn't.
DR. CHILTON
Remind me just the same.
WILL GRAHAM
Quid pro quo.
DR. CHILTON
This for that? What "this" are you
offering in exchange for my "that"?
WILL GRAHAM
I'm quite the topic of conversation
in psychiatric circles.
DR. CHILTON
I shared my diagnosis of you on the
witness stand. Your personality
disorders, neuroses, all forgeries.
WILL GRAHAM
Even if that were true, I'd still
be a psychopath of some interest.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 5.
DR. CHILTON
A particularly-manipulative one at
that. Poor, confused, wounded bird
for Agent Crawford and Doctors
Lecter and Bloom. And for me, well,
I get the psychopath's triumvirate:
charm, focus and ruthlessness. The
charm, of course, being debateable.
WILL GRAHAM
Either I'm a psychopath or I'm
delusional. Or I'm right about
Hannibal Lecter. Aren't you
curious which one it is?
DR. CHILTON
Will you allow me to test you?
WILL GRAHAM
Thematic Apperception. Minnesota
Multiphasic. I'll take them all.
You'll be the first and last word
on the mind of Will Graham. You
could dine out on that for years.
That clearly has an appeal for Dr. Chilton.
DR. CHILTON
What about Dr. Lecter?
WILL GRAHAM
Shouldn't you be my one and only
psychiatrist, Dr. Chilton?
DR. CHILTON
Ideally.
WILL GRAHAM
Now about your "that" for my "this."
(then)
Do not discuss me or my therapy
with Hannibal Lecter.
DR. CHILTON
You're a common point of interest
for both of us. He'll want to know
why I won't discuss you and why
he's not allowed to see you.
WILL GRAHAM
I refused to engage in my therapy
so you confined me to solitary out
of spite. He'd believe that.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 6.
(MORE)
Or better yet, tell him you've
decided I'm no longer any of his
business. I'm now under your
exclusive care.
OFF Dr. Chilton intrigued by Will Graham's proposal...
EXT. MEADOW - DAY
The afternoon sun shines. As a BUZZING fills our ears.
A HONEY BEE
It flies with purpose, its honey stomach full of nectar.
CAMERA follows the bee across a bucolic field of wild
DAISIES, into a thicket of trees.
Darting between the low-hanging branches, the bee zeroes in
on its BEEHIVE and lands gracefully on the exposed HONEYCOMB.
As it's met by OTHER BEES (and begins its GPS waggle dance),
CAMERA PUSHES PAST them, burrowing deeper --
INSIDE THE HIVE
CAMERA races past WORKER BEES maintaining the hive's food
stores. Finding an empty hexagonal cell in the denselypacked honeycomb, CAMERA RUSHES AT IT until it FILLS FRAME.
REVERSE ANGLE
On the same empty hexagonal cell. PULL BACK to reveal the
beehive fills the rotting head cavity of --
A MAN'S CORPSE
It sits upright against a tree, its decaying face looking
skyward as if enjoying the sunlight. CAMERA HOLDS ON IT as a
single bee crawls from the corpse's honeycombed eye socket
and takes flight. Within seconds, MORE BEES follow.
As a BLACK CLOUD OF BEES expel themselves from the eyes of
the corpse with an ominous DRONE --
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 7.
WILL GRAHAM (CONT'D)
ACT ONE
CLOSE ON A LITHO PLATE
Of Rembrandt's 17th-century painting, The Raising of Lazarus.
From OFF CAMERA, a VOICE says:
VOICE (O.S.)
Lazarus had it good.
PULL BACK to reveal the voice belongs to...
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY
BELLA CRAWFORD, looking more frail than when we saw her last
(Ep. #105), she places Hannibal's Rembrandt and puts it down.
BELLA CRAWFORD
My social circle doesn't include a
friend with power over death. I
suppose I should've embraced
Facebook while I had the chance.
HANNIBAL smiles, allowing Bella her gallows humor as she runs
her hand across her head, effortlessly collecting hairs.
BELLA CRAWFORD (CONTD)
I should never have let Jack talk
me into chemo.
Bella moves to her chair.
HANNIBAL
He's trying to extend your life.
BELLA CRAWFORD
He's trying to extend a quality of
life that's not worth the effort.
HANNIBAL
Jack's effort or yours?
Bella mulls that a moment, then:
BELLA CRAWFORD
He's getting lessons from a nurse
on giving me medications. Was
practicing injections on a lemon
and now has moved on to his thighs.
HANNIBAL
What's good for the goose.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 8.
BELLA CRAWFORD
He needs the practice.
(extending her arms)
My veins have collapsed. I'm
vomiting my stomach lining. On a
good day, I sleep fifteen to
eighteen hours. On a bad day, I
don't sleep. My best-case scenario
is prolonged pain management.
HANNIBAL
Jack will help you manage. He loves
you and when you are gone, he will
feel your silence like a draft.
BELLA CRAWFORD
My silence is inevitable. The war
is over. Cancer is an occupying
force. I want to surrender. While
I still have my dignity.
HANNIBAL
You considering ending your life?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Suicide seems like a valid solution
to my problem.
HANNIBAL
How does that make you feel?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Alive.
(then)
How does that make you feel?
HANNIBAL
I've always found the idea of death
comforting. The thought that my
life could end at any moment frees
me to fully appreciate the beauty,
art and horror of everything this
world has to offer.
BELLA CRAWFORD
A death benefit?
Hannibal acknowledges her play on words with a slight smile.
HANNIBAL
One of many.
(then)
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 9.
(MORE)
Upon taking his own life, Socrates
offered a rooster to Asclepius, the
god of healing, to pay his debt.
BELLA CRAWFORD
What debt would that be?
HANNIBAL
To Socrates, death was not a
defeat, but a cure.
OFF Bella considering his words --
EXT. MEADOW - DAY
Heavy SMOKE drifts through the air. A man in a BEEKEEPER
SUIT steps INTO FRAME, WAFTING MORE SMOKE skyward with his
portable BEE SMOKER.
CAMERA pushes through the smoke until it finds BRIAN ZELLER
and JIMMY PRICE (also in beekeeper suits) positioned over the
discolored corpse.
JIMMY PRICE
Hive seems well established. Basic
nest architecture in place.
Zeller's eyes dart over Price's shoulder to find --
JACK CRAWFORD
Standing at a safe distance, sans beekeeper suit. Zeller and
Price immediately approach, pulling off their bee helmets.
JACK CRAWFORD
Local police were supposed to
exterminate the bees to work the
crime scene. But apparently,
somebody shut that down.
JIMMY PRICE
I did.
BRIAN ZELLER
He did.
JIMMY PRICE
Colony Collapse is already wiping
out the bees, there's no reason to
murder them too.
Jack eyes Jimmy, then indicates the body by the tree.
JACK CRAWFORD
How long has he been out here?
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 10.
HANNIBAL (CONT'D)
BRIAN ZELLER
From the decomp, I'd estimate death
at two weeks.
JIMMY PRICE
Which makes sense with how much
honey is being produced.
(off their looks)
I love bees. The drone is nature's
most-talented suicidal swordsman.
When he mates with a queen, his
ejaculation is so explosive, it's
audible to the human ear.
BRIAN ZELLER
How audible?
JIMMY PRICE
A little "popping" sound. Kills
him dead. Rips his endophallus
right off.
JACK CRAWFORD
Do bees naturally hive in animal or
human carcasses?
JIMMY PRICE
No. The victim was purposely
repurposed as a human apiary.
JACK CRAWFORD
Purposely.
BRIAN ZELLER
Somebody removed eyes and part of
the brain to make room for a hive.
OFF Jack, his interest piqued --
CLOSE ON A MORGUE DRAWER
It OPENS and a cooled body under a sheet slides out.
We are --
INT. BAU - MORGUE - DAY
Beverly offers Hannibal a small container of SMELL-BLOCKING
OINTMENT; he raises his hand in polite refusal.
BEVERLY KATZ
Zeller's in the field, otherwise
I'd ask him to help me with this.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 11.
Beverly smears a dab inside each nostril, then pulls back the
sheet revealing JAMES GRAY, the remains of the stitching
still laced through his flesh.
BEVERLY KATZ (CONTD)
You were a surgeon, right?
HANNIBAL
I was a surgeon and a doctor.
BEVERLY KATZ
What's the distinction?
HANNIBAL
A surgeon can stand to look at a
mutilated body. But a doctor can't
stand to see a life wasted.
Beverly swings the MAGNIFYING LENS over James Gray's body.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
(re: James Gray)
Have you found any evidence on the
Muralist's friend?
BEVERLY KATZ
That's what I need your help with.
Might not be a friend. Might not
even be an acquaintance. Whoever
killed him, understood him. That
doesn't mean that he knew him or
even met him before he killed him.
HANNIBAL
So often you open your mouth and I
hear Will Graham's words come out.
Beverly stares, resists a smile, then confesses:
BEVERLY KATZ
Will and I have an arrangement.
HANNIBAL
Oh?
BEVERLY KATZ
He's agreed to consult with me on
cases, if I keep investigating the
murders he's accused of.
HANNIBAL
I'm happy to hear that. Will needs
a champion now more than ever.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 12.
BEVERLY KATZ
He has you, doesn't he? You think
there's a chance he could be
innocent. I know you do.
HANNIBAL
I believe there's a possibility.
(then)
How is your investigation going?
BEVERLY KATZ
I have nothing but Will's word.
I'm just relieved he's not saying
the killer is you anymore.
HANNIBAL
At least not to me. Who does Will
believe killed the Muralist?
Beverly wheels over a tray of autopsy tools, including
scalpels, scissors, rib cutters, vibrator saws and forceps.
BEVERLY KATZ
Doesn't know. He thinks, if James
Gray's killer hid him in the mural,
he may have hid something else.
HANNIBAL
A signature?
(studying James Gray)
What kind of killer seeks to depict
the unconscious, instinctual
strivings of his victim by sewing
him into his own human mural?
BEVERLY KATZ
It wasn't just for appearances.
HANNIBAL
You have to get to the truth
beneath the appearances.
Beverly wryly hands him an autopsy scalpel.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Freud used psychoanalysis to delve
into the subconscious mind and
reveal a patient's true intentions.
BEVERLY KATZ
What were James Gray's killer's
true intentions, if not friendship?
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 13.
HANNIBAL
Only by going deep beneath the skin
will you understand the nature of
this killer's pathology.
OFF Beverly studying Hannibal as he places the scalpel...
INT. BSHCI - INFIRMARY - DAY
Will Graham sits in handcuffs and shackles, accompanied by
the medical flair necessary for his session. Dr. Chilton
sits opposite him, regarding him with curiosity.
DR. CHILTON
Before I start asking you questions,
I need some confidence you'll be
telling the truth when you answer.
He presents Will with a CONSENT FORM on a CLIPBOARD.
WILL GRAHAM
What's this?
DR. CHILTON
A consent form. You're agreeing to
a narcoanalytic interview. You.
Me. And our friend, sodium amytal.
WILL GRAHAM
Something to loosen my tongue.
DR. CHILTON
Something lawfully used in the
evaluation of psychotic patients.
WILL GRAHAM
What would you use to induce memory
loss in a patient, psychotic or
otherwise?
DR. CHILTON
Hypothetically?
WILL GRAHAM
Of course.
DR. CHILTON
Psychological trauma or
neurological trauma? Or both.
WILL GRAHAM
What sort of neurological trauma?
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 14.
DR. CHILTON
The protein synthesis that moves
memories from short-term to longterm can be interrupted, but that
requires tools and skills. And a
certain level of unorthodoxy.
WILL GRAHAM
Does Hannibal Lecter possess those
tools and skills?
Chilton studies Will a moment, then:
DR. CHILTON
Dr. Lecter has indicated to me that
he is open to the unorthodox when
it comes to treating patients.
WILL GRAHAM
I wonder how that subject came up.
Sharing stories of the unorthodox?
DR. CHILTON
(indicates the clipboard)
Sign here.
EXTREME CLOSE ON THE SIGNATURE LINE
Will signs his name.
CLOSE ON A VEIN
The needle of an INTRAVENOUS DRIP pierces skin.
EXTREME CLOSE ON A SYRINGE'S PLUNGER
It glides down, drug solution SURGING, showing striations as
it is PUSHED in a single direction.
CLOSE ON AN INTRAVENOUS DRIP
The contents of the SYRINGE enter the stream, coursing toward
the vein in Will Graham's arm.
ON WILL GRAHAM
He allows his head to loll back, feeling the drugs hit his
system, and stares at the FLUORESCENT LIGHT above him. The
rhythm of his circulatory system filling his ears.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 15.
ON A FLUORESCENT LIGHT
It flickers faster than the naked eye can see, but as the
drugs overtake Will's vision, the FLICKER SLOWS, gradually
becoming a quick STROBE and then a slower STROBE.
ON WILL GRAHAM -- WILL'S POV
His head rolls back onto his shoulders, eyes open, lit by a
STROBE LIGHT flashing in the same rhythm, fast as a rabbits
heartbeat. SWEAT is already on his brow. He reacts --
WILL'S POV -- HANNIBAL LECTERS OFFICE (MEMORY)
Hannibal kneels next to Will in his normal therapy chair,
injecting a syringe into his vein and depressing the plunger.
He's silhouetted by a STROBE LIGHT PULSING in front of Will.
Hannibal looks up at Will:
HANNIBAL
I want you to draw a clock for me.
ON WILL GRAHAM -- OMNISCIENT POV
Dr. Chilton sits opposite Will, conducting his interview.
DR. CHILTON
Did Dr. Lecter administer any drug
therapies during your sessions
together? Sedatives or hypnotics?
Ethanal, scopolamine, midazolam?
Will surrenders to the flow of the drugs in his veins.
WILL GRAHAM
There was something. Don't know
what it was. Wasn't supposed to
know. I remember a strobing light.
WILL'S POV -- HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE (MEMORY)
Hannibal sits opposite Will, behind the STROBING LIGHT which
only intermittently illuminates him.
HANNIBAL
The strobe causes neurons to fire
en masse -- like striking many
piano keys at once. The dissonance
might foster a change in your mind.
Will glances at the drawing on the table next to him: a
normal CLOCK FACE. Lit by the STROBE FLASH, the image
changes: FLASH. The clock as he perceives it. FLASH.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 16.
The numbers and hands are PILED TO ONE SIDE -- a reflection
of his inflamed brain. FLASH. The image is correct again.
When Will looks again, HANNIBALS FACE IS A LIVING PICASSO
PORTRAIT -- like the clocks, his features are piled to one
side. Words literally coming from one side of his mouth:
PICASSO HANNIBAL
Is something wrong?
As Will slips into a full-blown seizure, everything goes
BLACK and after a long beat, we HEAR --
DR. CHILTON (V.O.)
Will...?
ON WILL -- OMNISCIENT POV
Will glances up at Dr. Chilton sitting opposite him.
WILL GRAHAM
He was inducing seizures. That's how
he created the blackouts. The lost
time. It was strategic. Planned.
DR. CHILTON
You would only see a seizure
response in a brain afflicted with
photosensitive epilepsy.
WILL GRAHAM
Or afflicted with something just as
damaging. Like encephalitis.
DR. CHILTON
That would suggest a radicallyunorthodox form of therapy.
WILL GRAHAM
Yes, it would.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 17.
ACT TWO
INT. BSHCI - STAIRWELL/NURSES' STATION - DAY
Hannibal stands outside the nurses' station as Dr. Chilton
descends the stairs, frustrated and apologetic.
DR. CHILTON
Dr. Lecter. I am so embarrassed.
Didn't get my message? I canceled
your appointment with Will Graham.
HANNIBAL
Is everything all right?
DR. CHILTON
I can explain. Shall we?
Chilton leads Hannibal up the stairs of the cell block.
DR. CHILTON (CONTD)
Will's at a delicate place in his
therapy. I don't want to confuse
him any more than he already is.
HANNIBAL
Confuse him? Isn't it your opinion
he's an intelligent psychopath?
DR. CHILTON
It was, but my opinion is evolving.
After administering a narcoanalytic
interview, therapeutically-vital
information has come to light.
HANNIBAL
What sort of information?
DR. CHILTON
What Will Graham suffers from may
not be a single condition, but a
continuum of illnesses, all with
different neurological mechanisms.
Some naturally occurring, others
appear to have been induced.
Hannibal stops on the stairs.
HANNIBAL
Induced by whom?
DR. CHILTON
Did you ever use any kind of light
stimulation in your treatment?
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 18.
HANNIBAL
Light stimulation is a standard
tool for neurotherapy. It's meant
to increase cerebral blood flow.
DR. CHILTON
Evidently, it was overloading his
visual cortex. Creating seizures,
lost time, gaps in his memory.
Almost strategically, it seems.
HANNIBAL
You suggesting it was intentional?
Chilton stands on the next step, rising to Hannibal's eye
level, but lowering his voice conspiratorially.
DR. CHILTON
All our conversations about psychic
driving. You were so curious and
eager to hear what I had to say
while saying very little yourself.
HANNIBAL
I had very little to say.
DR. CHILTON
I've been thinking about the
possibility you may've been psychic
driving Will Graham all along.
HANNIBAL
A bold accusation, Frederick.
DR. CHILTON
To know with any certainty if you
were manipulating Will's memories,
I'd need to understand how and why.
Under a cone of confidentiality.
HANNIBAL
As a professional courtesy.
DR. CHILTON
You're not the only psychiatrist
accused of making a patient kill.
We have to stick together.
CUT TO:
EXTREME CLOSE ON METAL TEETH
The TEETH narrowly miss each other, GRINDING the bulbs of
herb in a circular motion.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 19.
EXTREME CLOSE ON GROUND HERBS
They fall THROUGH FRAME like green snowflakes.
We are --
INT. JACK CRAWFORD'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT
Jack lies next to Bella as she packs the end of a PAX
VAPORIZER with ground herb.
JACK CRAWFORD
Last time I did this, this wasn't
the way you did this.
BELLA CRAWFORD
A vaporizer. Easier on my lungs.
(re: the herbs)
The young man at the dispensary
called this "Purple Kush." He told
me all his cancer patients love its
"deep-body stone."
JACK CRAWFORD
You have a marijuana sommelier?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Yes.
She inhales from the vaporizer and exhales. Jack reaches for
the vaporizer. But Bella pulls it away.
BELLA CRAWFORD (CONTD)
Don't they still drug test you?
JACK CRAWFORD
I'm supporting my wife.
Bella hands Jack the vaporizer and he inhales. She watches
him, loving him, yet unable to stop herself from telling him:
BELLA CRAWFORD
I filled out my advance directive
today. I added a DNR.
JACK CRAWFORD
You're harshing my buzz.
Jack hands the vaporizer back to Bella and changes the topic.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
I read an article that said
magnetic hyperthermia is looking
more promising for lung cancer.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 20.
Bella takes Jack's hand and they both fall silent. Then,
hoping some context will help him understand, she says:
BELLA CRAWFORD
I know what to expect from the lung
cancer. I am my mother's daughter.
I watched her go through exactly
what I'm going through now.
JACK CRAWFORD
I know you did.
BELLA CRAWFORD
I remember sitting by her bed when
she woke up in such pain, all she
could do was scream my name. I
didn't know how to help her. So I
did nothing. I just sat there and
waited for her to fall back asleep.
JACK CRAWFORD
There was nothing you could do.
BELLA CRAWFORD
There will be a time when there's
nothing you can do. I don't want
you to remember me pleading with
you to make the pain stop.
JACK CRAWFORD
It's not how I'm going to remember
you, Bella. I'm going to remember
you walking on the quays in Italy,
the glittering water reflected in
your eyes. How your hands smell
like thyme when you come in from the
garden. How you wore that round hat
and white gloves the first time I
saw you and I whistled "Begin the
Beguine." And I'm going to remember
how beautiful you are right now.
Bella's voice waivers. She stops, wipes at a tear.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Good. Because I don't want to lie
in bed and waste away while you
watch. I'm going to insist on a few
things, for as long as I can still
insist. And that's one of them.
JACK CRAWFORD
And when you can't insist anymore,
I will do the insisting for you.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 21.
OFF Jack wishing he could respect that, but knowing he can't.
INT. BAU - MORGUE - DAY
The "Bee Man" from the teaser lies on the morgue slab, the
honeycomb removed from his hollow head. Zeller and Price
stand over the body, comparing notes with Jack.
BRIAN ZELLER
Duncan Halloran, fifty-two,
divorced and bankrupt. Reported
missing six months ago.
JIMMY PRICE
A week prior to his disappearance,
Mr. Halloran lost a workmen's comp
claim for chronic back problems.
JACK CRAWFORD
What do we know about his death?
BRIAN ZELLER
Considering any postmortem
morphological changes, it looks
like his white blood cell count was
through the roof when he died.
JACK CRAWFORD
Are you telling me his killer was a
fever and/or a massive infection?
BRIAN ZELLER
Lock them both up.
Jack studies the remains of Duncan Halloran.
JACK CRAWFORD
No money. No family. No reason to
live. Alive or dead or dying, who
put him under that tree?
JIMMY PRICE
It's possible we're dealing with a
religiously-motivated individual
here. In Hinduism, honey is one of
the five elixirs of immortality. In
Christianity, the bee is considered
to be an emblem of Christ; his
mildness and mercy on one side and
his justice on the other.
Zeller draws their attention back to the corpse.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 22.
BRIAN ZELLER
Look at the orbital bones. The
sphenoid here.
Jack and Price move to the slab. Zeller indicates the
magnifying lens positioned above the eye sockets.
THROUGH THE MAGNIFYING LENS
Small holes dot the cradle of the eye.
BRIAN ZELLER (CONTD)
Tiny punctures. Behind where the
eyeballs would usually be.
Something long and sharp was pushed
into the brain.
(beat)
The man was lobotomized.
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON A TRAY OF ACUPUNCTURE NEEDLES
They're in a neat row, individually wrapped in plastic.
CLOSE ON A SWAB OF COTTON
It swells with STERILIZING ALCOHOL, thickening the weave.
CLOSE ON SKIN
The flesh is swabbed with alcohol.
CLOSE ON AN INDIVIDUAL NEEDLE
It punctures the skin of a GNARLED HAND. CAMERA PULLS BACK
to reveal the NEEDLE is one of many. We are --
INT. HOME HOMEOPATHIC SPA - ACUPUNCTURE ROOM - DAY
A pleasant, warmly-lit room with acupuncture charts on the
walls and shelves of HERBS and RAW HONEY, among other things.
CAMERA finds a man, LLOYD ROAT, scarecrow thin with TWISTED
ARTHRITIC HANDS, lying on a therapy table with ACUPUNCTURE
NEEDLES in his face, arms, hands and chest.
Acupuncturist KATHERINE PIMMS, 40s, hippie-chic, offers Lloyd
a polite smile before tapping a needle into his chin.
KATHERINE PIMMS
How are you sleeping?
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 23.
LLOYD ROAT
Not well. My arthritis is killing
me. I can't take much more of it.
KATHERINE PIMMS
A course of bee venom therapy would
soothe the inflammation.
LLOYD ROAT
I can barely afford this treatment.
Katherine offers him another polite smile.
KATHERINE PIMMS
That's a problem for another day.
Right now, you need to quiet your
mind. Live in the present.
She inserts a needle above his eye with a tap.
KATHERINE PIMMS (CONTD)
Did you feel that?
LLOYD ROAT
No.
Katherine taps another needle into his neck along the spine.
KATHERINE PIMMS
Did you feel that?
LLOYD ROAT
No.
Lloyd pauses, realizing something's wrong. He can't move.
CLOSE ON A METAL HEAVY-GAUGE NEEDLE
It's placed on a prep tray.
CLOSE ON A SMALL BALL-PEEN HAMMER
It's placed next to the metal rod.
ON KATHERINE PIMMS
She picks up a LONG, HEAVY-GAUGE NEEDLE and a small ball-peen
hammer from a tray and turns to Lloyd.
KATHERINE PIMMS
Good. Then you won't feel this.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 24.
CLOSE ON LLOYD'S EYE
The tip of Katherine's needle slips under his eyelid and
travels across the surface of his eyeball until it finds the
top of the eye socket.
With a sharp TAP, the NEEDLE SINKS in DEEP, and we --
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 25.
ACT THREE
EXT. PARK - DAY
A sparsely-populated field featuring mature trees and rolling
hills. CAMERA soon finds a laughing LITTLE GIRL and her
FATHER playing FRISBEE. The father tosses the Frisbee to his
daughter, but the disc sails over her head and lands at the
HEELS of A MAN (with his back to us) staring up at the sun.
ON THE LITTLE GIRL
The youngster rushes up to the man and picks up her Frisbee.
Glancing up at the unmoving figure, she frowns.
LITTLE GIRL
Mister, you're not supposed'a stare
at the sun. You'll hurt your eyes.
As if lost in a mental fog, the man slowly turns toward the
sound of the little girl's voice to reveal it's...
LLOYD ROAT
AND HE HAS NO EYES. Instead, RUNNELS OF STICKY HONEY flow
from his eye sockets like melting gold.
CUT TO:
CAMERA PULLS OUT OF THE DARKNESS
To reveal the empty eye sockets of Lloyd Roat.
INT. BAU - EXAMINATION ROOM - DAY
He lies on an examination table, restrained at wrists and
ankles. Docile, he stares blindly at the ceiling, quietly
moaning or mumbling in an unintelligible babble as Zeller and
Price perform a "living autopsy" on his naked flesh.
Zeller shines a small flashlight into Lloyd's eye sockets.
BRIAN ZELLER
Multiple holes this time. Over a
dozen. Both eye sockets. The
lesions severed most the nerve
tracts to the frontal lobes.
THROUGH THE MAGNIFYING LENS
Jimmy examines Lloyd's skin, which is covered in BEE STINGS.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 26.
JIMMY PRICE
He's covered in bee stings. It's
like he got swarmed. He must be
floating in apitoxin. Probably
can't feel a thing.
BRIAN ZELLER
Him not feeling anything's got
nothing to do with bee stings.
He's been lobotomized. Welcome to
the world of the living dead.
Jimmy points to a MONITOR displaying a MAGNIFIED area of
Lloyd Roat's skin.
JIMMY PRICE
There's a pattern.
Price and Zeller take a closer look at the MAGNIFIED AREA as
Beverly ENTERS and approaches the living autopsy.
BEVERLY KATZ
Hey.
Prize and Zeller turn to see Beverly standing in the doorway.
JIMMY PRICE
Look what the Katz dragged in.
BEVERLY KATZ
What are you looking at?
JIMMY PRICE
A pattern.
BRIAN ZELLER
A pattern.
Jimmy zeros in on the area in question. Several bee stings
appear more inflamed than the others.
JIMMY PRICE
Some of the bee stings triggered
allergic reactions, others didn't.
BRIAN ZELLER
Look. The inflamed bee stings are
all in line with the body's
meridians. On acupuncture points.
JIMMY PRICE
The killer's an acupuncturist?
BRIAN ZELLER
The stings are hiding needle marks.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 27.
BEVERLY KATZ
What did you say?
BRIAN ZELLER
The stings are hiding needle marks.
CAMERA PUSHES IN ON Beverly as realization dawns...
CUT TO:
INT. BAU - MORGUE - DAY
Body storage compartments open, the BODIES displayed. CAMERA
finds Beverly re-examining the stitches on James Gray's body.
THROUGH THE MAGNIFYING LENS - ON GRAY'S FLESH
Hidden beneath the EQUINE SUTURE FILAMENT is a FINER SURGICAL
SUTURE which has been used to close a SCALPEL INCISION.
ON BEVERLY
Stunned by what this could mean.
BEVERLY KATZ
Stitches are hiding stitches.
Grabbing SURGICAL SCISSORS, she carefully removes both sets
of sutures and opens the wound.
BEVERLY KATZ (CONTD)
"Only by going deep beneath the
skin will we understand the nature
of this killer's pathology."
It's empty. A bloody void.
BEVERLY KATZ (CONTD)
He took his kidneys.
As Beverly quietly considers what that could mean --
CLOSE ON A BEAD OF SWEAT
It holds position and then loses the battle against gravity,
sliding down the side of Will Graham's brow. We are --
INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - DAY
Will sleeps on his cot, drenched in sweat. The rhythm of his
breath rises and falls in his ears. In the distance, he can
hear an argument growing somewhere down the corridor.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 28.
VOICE 1 (V.O.)
I think I'm losing my mind. Just
tell me if he's real.
VOICE 2 (V.O.)
I don't see anyone.
VOICE 1 (V.O.)
No, no, he's right there.
VOICE 2 (V.O.)
There's no one there.
VOICE 1 (V.O.)
You're lying.
VOICE 2 (V.O.)
We're alone. You came here alone.
VOICE 1 (V.O.)
Please don't lie to me.
Will OPENS HIS EYES, sits upright, swinging his feet off the
bed, holding his head in an attempt to silence the voices.
VOICE 1 (V.O.) (CONTD)
What's happening to me?
Will reacts to the proximity of the voice. He turns. On the
other side of the bars is HANNIBAL'S DINING ROOM. MEMORY
HANNIBAL stands next to MEMORY WILL, who is doused in sweat,
mid-seizure. Seated at the table is MEMORY GIDEON. (NOTE:
This is a replay from EP. #111 "RTI," Scene 33.)
Will stands and crosses to the bars, looking into...
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Memory Hannibal looks into Memory Will's rolling eyes and
confirms to Memory Gideon:
HANNIBAL
He's had a mild seizure.
CAMERA reveals PRESENT-DAY WILL standing on the other side of
the dining room table, watching himself.
DR. GIDEON
That doesn't seem to bother you.
HANNIBAL
I said it was mild.
Hannibal sits at the head of the table, opposite Gideon.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 29.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Are you the man who claimed to be
the Chesapeake Ripper?
DR. GIDEON
Why do you say "claimed"?
HANNIBAL
Because you're not. You know
you're not and you don't know much
more about who you are beyond that.
Gideon is struck silent by that assessment. Hannibal sits
opposite Gideon at the dining table.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
A terrible thing, to have your
identity taken from you.
ON WILL GRAHAM
He is stunned at the recovered memory. He closes his eyes.
As he opens his eyes, CAMERA reveals:
Will is lying in his bed. He stares up at the ceiling as
CAMERA PULLS UP AND AWAY until Will is merely a man in a box.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 30.
ACT FOUR
INT. BSHCI - PRIVACY ROOM - DAY
Will Graham and Beverly Katz. Pictures between them on the
table, of the Muralist and the voids where his kidneys were.
BEVERLY KATZ
Whoever killed James Gray, didn't
just take his leg.
WILL GRAHAM
Was he missing organs?
She stares at Will, curious how he figured it out, then:
BEVERLY KATZ
His killer took both of his
kidneys. None of the other bodies
in the mural were missing organs.
WILL GRAHAM
They had a different killer.
She presents a PHOTO illustrating the stitches on sutures.
BEVERLY KATZ
Sutures hidden under the stitching
that wove him into the mural. One
crime made to look like another.
WILL GRAHAM
Like the Copycat.
(then)
And the Chesapeake Ripper.
BEVERLY KATZ
Now you're saying Hannibal Lecter
is the Chesapeake Ripper?
WILL GRAHAM
Also the Chesapeake Ripper. Were
the kidneys surgically removed?
BEVERLY KATZ
Yes.
WILL GRAHAM
Dr. Lecter was a surgeon.
BEVERLY KATZ
I know he was. I asked him to
consult on James Gray's autopsy.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 31.
The pit of Will's stomach drops out.
WILL GRAHAM
If you invited him with an actual
agenda, Hannibal would know it.
BEVERLY KATZ
He said, "Only by going deep beneath
the skin will we understand the
nature of this killer." Thought it
was a little corny, even for him.
WILL GRAHAM
He's toying with you. He toyed
with me for months.
BEVERLY KATZ
He pointed me to the evidence.
WILL GRAHAM
He pointed you to an absence of
evidence. He's baiting a hook.
Stay away from Hannibal Lecter. Go
to Jack. Tell him everything.
BEVERLY KATZ
I can't bring this up until I can
back it up.
(considers, then)
The Chesapeake Ripper kept surgical
trophies. If Hannibal's the Ripper,
what's he doing with his trophies?
ON WILL GRAHAM
A horrible thought crosses his mind. He closes his eyes,
considering the possibility, and we --
FLASH CUT TO:
WILL'S MEMORY (EP. #101 "APRITIF," SCENE 44)
CASSIE BOYLE silhouetted in the setting sun, impaled on a
severed stag head, covered with black birds.
WILL'S MEMORY (EP. #101 "APRITIF," SCENE 50)
Will eats a sausage and Hannibal smiles.
FLASH BACK TO:
PRIVACY ROOM
Will reels from the horrifying realization, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 32.
WILL GRAHAM
He's eating them.
Beverly stares as Will suppresses a shudder, knowing that
he's been eating Hannibal's trophies, too.
CUT TO:
EXTREME CLOSE ON A FRAME OF HONEYCOMB
The honey weeps freely from its wax casing. ANOTHER FRAME OF
HONEYCOMB WIPES FRAME, sliding in front of the first.
CLOSE ON HONEYCOMB FRAMES
They spin ABOVE CAMERA like a TURBINE. HONEY streams from the
SPINNING COMB until the viscous amber fluid FILLS THE LENS.
CLOSE ON A STRAINER
The contents of the HONEYCOMB flow from the HONEY TAP,
including pieces of wax, filling a mesh bowl and dripping the
strained honey into a jar.
INT. HOME HOMEOPATHIC SPA - KITCHEN - DAY
CAMERA finds Katherine Pimms surrounded by JARS OF HONEY and
larger METAL HONEY EXTRACTORS. The SUNLIGHT through the JARS
OF HONEY casts the room in a warm glow.
DOWN THE HALL
A SILHOUETTE fills the etched glass of the front door. The
DOORBELL RINGS.
THE FRONT DOOR
Katherine Pimms opens the door to reveal Jack Crawford
standing on her front porch with Brian Zeller and Jimmy
Price. Beyond the porch, TWO POLICE OFFICERS.
JACK CRAWFORD
Katherine Pimms?
KATHERINE PIMMS
Yes.
JACK CRAWFORD
I'm Agent Crawford with the FBI.
Agent Zeller and Agent Price. We'd
like to ask you a few questions
about former patients of yours.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 33.
KATHERINE PIMMS
Mr. Halloran and/or Mr. Roat?
JACK CRAWFORD
Yes.
KATHERINE PIMMS
Would you like to come in?
ACUPUNCTURE ROOM
Crawford, Price and Zeller question Katherine Pimms.
JIMMY PRICE
When was the last time you saw
Duncan Halloran or Lloyd Roat?
KATHERINE PIMMS
Whenever their last appointments
were. I can check my calendar, if
you want. Have you found them?
BRIAN ZELLER
Yes, we have. Mr. Halloran was
deceased. Mr. Roat may as well be.
KATHERINE PIMMS
Poor Mr. Halloran. If there were a
single example that we're not all
created equal, it would be him.
JACK CRAWFORD
What were you treating him for?
KATHERINE PIMMS
That man trudged from one terrible
disease to another. He had severe
combined immunodeficiency. Life
didn't seem to be going his way.
(then)
I find people don't get their own
way because they often don't know
themselves where that way leads.
JACK CRAWFORD
Where was Mr. Halloran's way
leading him?
KATHERINE PIMMS
He couldn't envision a dignified
end of life. Much nicer for him to
die in a meadow, head full of bees.
(off their looks)
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 34.
(MORE)
Did you taste the honey? Couldn't
bring myself to. It seemed morbid.
Furtive glances around the room at that admission.
JACK CRAWFORD
You left him in that field to die?
KATHERINE PIMMS
I brought him to that field to die.
But I didn't kill him. Just quieted
his mind so he could die in peace.
JACK CRAWFORD
And Mr. Roat? Quiet his mind, too?
KATHERINE PIMMS
Oh, yes. He suffered from crippling
arthritis. After he was quieted, I
saw him walk pain-free for the very
first time. I watched him wander
off and I knew... I knew then that
this moment now, here with you, was
inevitable. I was good as caught.
JACK CRAWFORD
You wanted to be caught.
KATHERINE PIMMS
I wanted people to know I can help.
I can't make the pain go away, but
I can make it so it doesn't matter.
JACK CRAWFORD
You can't help anyone anymore. Not
like this. Not where you're going.
KATHERINE PIMMS
I bet I can. You think I'm wrong.
You stand there and intellectualize
another person's pain of being
alive relative to your own. If you
can imagine yourself surviving that
pain, you can imagine them. But we
are not created equal, are we?
(then)
I've protected these people from
hopelessness. And that's beautiful.
JACK CRAWFORD
These people?
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 35.
KATHERINE PIMMS (CONT'D)
INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY
The door OPENS and Jack ENTERS the beautiful floral
environment, overgrown and borderline unkempt. Jars of honey
refract the harsh sunlight into amber beams of warmth.
Scattered BEES flit from flower to flower, gathering pollen.
Something moves, concealed in the plant life ahead.
ON JACK CRAWFORD
He trains his weapon on the movement. Then something else
moves. He swings around to see a BALD MAN with his head
down. Then a WOMAN, her hair matted to her face.
All of a sudden, A MAN WITH a SHOCK OF HAIR is standing very
near Jack, his eye sockets dripping honey.
Jack lowers his weapon. It's clear none of these lobotomized
people mean anyone any harm.
Jack Crawford, horrified by what he's found, turns to
Katherine Pimms standing in the doorway behind him, flanked
by Zeller and Price, both dumbstruck by what they see.
KATHERINE PIMMS
They were suffering. Is it so
wrong to want to end that for them?
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY
Hannibal opens his office door to find Bella waiting for him.
HANNIBAL
Please come in.
For the first time in this episode, Bella has a lighter air
about her. Dressed perfectly, hair and makeup beautifully
done, she enters the office with a small GIFT BAG on her arm.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY
Bella's personality change is not lost on Hannibal, even as
she leans in the doorway and inquires:
BELLA CRAWFORD
I hate to ask, but could you help
me to my seat?
HANNIBAL
Of course.
Hannibal guides her to the seat opposite him.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 36.
BELLA CRAWFORD
It's unnerving, not being able to
walk across the room.
HANNIBAL
Nothing can be so unnerving to
someone strong as being weak.
She sits as though she's just walked a thousand miles.
BELLA CRAWFORD
I was so weak after chemotherapy,
Jack had to physically pick me up.
Was the second time he carried me
across the threshold.
She gets lost in that thought a moment. Then:
BELLA CRAWFORD (CONTD)
I brought you something.
HANNIBAL
A gift?
BELLA CRAWFORD
Paying my debt.
Bella tries to lean forward to pick up the gift bag, but
can't manage. Hannibal picks it up for her and opens it.
CLOSE ON THE DISPLAY BOX
Inside it is a valuable FRENCH 20-FRANC GOLD COIN. It's
displayed so that the coin's rear side -- depicting a proud,
fully-plumed ROOSTER -- is facing up.
HANNIBAL
Coq Gaulois.
BELLA CRAWFORD
For helping me understand that
death is not a defeat, but a cure.
Hannibal realizes the significance.
HANNIBAL
What have you taken, Bella?
BELLA CRAWFORD
My morphine. Every last bit of it.
Bella's eyes focus. Some tears. She pulls herself together.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 37.
BELLA CRAWFORD (CONTD)
I didn't want to die at home. I
didn't want Jack to find me. I
didn't want him to make that call,
to be in the room with my body,
waiting for it to become a
ceremonial object apart from him,
separate from who I was, someone
who he can only hold in his mind.
HANNIBAL
You denied him his good-bye.
BELLA CRAWFORD
(drifting)
I denied him a painful good-bye.
Allowed myself a peaceful one. Will
you tell Jack I love him very much?
HANNIBAL
Yes.
BELLA CRAWFORD
Good-bye, Dr. Lecter.
BELLA'S POV -- HANNIBAL
Her vision TUNNELS as Hannibal grows more and more distant,
her breathing rising and falling at the edge of perception
until finally, one last breath is taken and exhaled.
ON BELLA
As if leading her last breath, CAMERA PULLS AWAY.
ON HANNIBAL
He remains seated, watching Bella die, with curiosity, in the
utter silence of the room, for an uncomfortably-long moment.
HANNIBAL
Good-bye, Bella.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 38.
ACT FIVE
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY
Bella's body lies still. Hannibal stares, as if waiting for
the life that just left Bella's body to return. It doesn't.
He curiously retrieves the GOLD COIN from its display box.
He turns it over in his hand, considering it and its meaning,
before finally FLIPPING IT INTO THE AIR.
ON THE GOLD COIN
It turns in the air above Hannibal before he catches it.
ON HANNIBAL
He examines the fate of the coin, then stands and moves to a
cabinet and opens it. He pulls out a GATEMOUTH SATCHEL and
retrieves a small glass bottle.
CLOSE ON A BOTTLE MARKED "NALOXONE"
CLOSE ON A SYRINGE
It plunges into the rubber end of the bottle and pulls one
c.c. of naloxone into the syringe.
ON BELLA
Hannibal stands over her a moment, thumps the side of the
syringe, then carefully injects the needle into her JUGULAR.
CLOSE ON THE SYRINGE
He depresses the plunger and the naloxone flows into Bella.
ON HANNIBAL
He studies Bella, and she almost immediately stirs. Her eyes
open. Even in her state, she realizes what's happened...
BELLA CRAWFORD
No...
OFF Hannibal looking down at her --
ON JACK CRAWFORD
He stares into the distance in front of him. The rhythm of
his breathing keeps steady pace. Inhaling. Exhaling.
We are --
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 39.
INT. JACK CRAWFORD'S SEDAN - NIGHT
Jack watches the road unfurling ahead, shell-shocked. His
breath is all we hear. Inhaling. Exhaling. Inhaling.
JACK'S POV -- THE ROAD
The painted lines of the asphalt fly one by one beneath the
undercarriage of his sedan. Exhaling. Inhaling. Exhaling.
ON JACK
He continues to stare forward, only his environment has
changed. Inhaling. Exhaling. We are --
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT
Jack Crawford stares at his wife, Bella, in her hospital bed.
She looks back, melancholy. Inhaling. Exhaling. Inhaling.
He approaches her bedside, taking a seat and bowing his head
over the hand at her side. He quietly begins to weep as SOUND
RETURNS TO NORMAL. A steady BLIP, BLIP of her EKG trace, the
green line pulsing. Bella's life as an electronic signal.
She looks at Jack. She holds his gaze and he holds hers.
The door OPENS and Bella stirs. Takes her a second to get
her bearings and realize Hannibal now stands in the room.
HANNIBAL
I'll come back.
Before he can leave, Bella calmly asks:
BELLA CRAWFORD
What are you doing here?
HANNIBAL
I came to apologize. I couldn't
honor what you asked of me.
He steps to the bed and bends and places the COIN she gave
him in Bella's hand.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
I'm sorry.
Bella SLAPS him with her other hand. Hard and sudden.
Hannibal's face is rocked. He does not make a sound. Bella
stares at him, unrepentant. Jack stands, stunned.
JACK CRAWFORD
Bella.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 40.
BELLA CRAWFORD
(to Hannibal)
Get out.
(a whisper)
Get out.
Hannibal turns and EXITS without another word.
ON BEVERLY KATZ
Moving intently, feeling the weight of what she has to say.
We are --
INT. BAU - CORRIDOR OUTSIDE JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - NIGHT
Beverly knocks on the door, looking inside. No one there.
Zeller rounds a corner, carrying a GIANT HUNK of freshlyharvested honeycomb, presumably from Duncan Halloran.
BEVERLY KATZ
Hey. Have you seen Jack?
BRIAN ZELLER
There was some emergency with his
wife. Dr. Lecter called and asked
him to meet him at the hospital.
BEVERLY KATZ
Is Mrs. Crawford all right?
BRIAN ZELLER
We don't know. He wouldn't say.
BEVERLY KATZ
(considers, then)
So Hannibal's at the hospital, too?
EXT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - NIGHT
CAMERA PUSHES IN on a time-lapse establishing.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT
Night. CAMERA tracks through the meticulously-tidy kitchen.
A SHAFT OF LIGHT cuts through the DARKNESS. CAMERA finds
Beverly Katz standing in front of the OPEN REFRIGERATOR.
Beverly is engulfed in its light. The shelves stacked neatly
with exotic foodstuffs.
Beverly lifts hands in latex gloves and pulls open clear
drawers, but no cuts of meat. Not what she is looking for.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 41.
CLOSES the refrigerator, taking us back to DARKNESS.
She pulls out a PENLIGHT and switches it on. Moves to the
PANTRY DOOR, which is locked. She squats and takes out a lockpicking kit, inserting two tools into the lock and working.
EXTREME CLOSE ON THE LOCK BOLT
It turns and clicks.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - PANTRY - NIGHT
Beverly opens the door.
She steps inside, the room illuminated by the large glassfront freezer. Beverly moves toward it, past an AERATOR
sitting on the counter, filled with red wine.
She slides the door open and peers within. FROZEN FOOD --
vacuum-packed and sealed. She moves things around. Her
gloved hands smearing the condensation on the slick plastic.
ON BEVERLY
Her face lit by the glow of the freezer's light. She reaches
inside and lifts out a vacuum-sealed KIDNEY, and ANOTHER.
BEVERLY KATZ
Gotcha.
She leaves one and slips the other inside her coat.
She CLOSES the freezer, turns and knocks the aerator of wine
off the counter. It CRASHES to the floor, SHATTERING. Beverly
silently curses herself out, then something catches her eye.
ON THE FLOOR
The spilled wine seeps between the cracks in the floorboard.
Beverly runs the toe of her boot along the seam in the floor.
CUT TO:
DARKNESS
And then, from above, a widening triangle of light. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT
The triangle of light illuminates narrow, steep steps that
spiral into the darkness below.
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 42.
FEET come into view as Beverly, gun drawn, slowly comes down
them, flashing the penlight before her. It catches
highlights, off reflective tiles, of the room around her.
She finds a SWITCH and a series of overhead fluorescent
lights FLICKERS ON, one by one. Beverly reacts to what she
sees. (NOTE: CAMERA does not reveal what she sees.)
BEVERLY KATZ
Omigod.
The last overhead fluorescent FLICKERS ON behind her,
revealing HANNIBAL STANDING SEVERAL FEET AWAY.
As she turns, he MOVES.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
CAMERA PROWLS the floor as GUNFIRE ERUPTS from below, muffled,
but clear. BLAM. BLAM. BLAM. Finally, BLAM, a bullet
BLASTS through the floor, splintering the wood in a hole.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #204 "Takiawase" FINAL DRAFT 10/20/13 43.
Mukzuke
Written by
Ayanna A. Floyd
and
Steve Lightfoot
&
Bryan Fuller
Directed by
Michael Rymer
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #205 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2014 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot
Executive Producer: Chris Brancato
Consulting Producer: Jesse Alexander 
HANNIBAL
"Mukozuke"
TEASER
Hands bring a basket from underwater in a deep sink.
Fresh, clean water runs over OYSTERS within the basket. The
tap turns off. Drips with a PLIP-PLOP. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY
CLOSE-UP -- a sharp knife as it opens an OYSTER, and then
another...
BACON sizzles as it is laid in a hot pan. EXTREME CLOSE-UP
as the fat blisters and then POPS with a stinging hiss...
An EGG -- SLOW-MO as it flies up in the air and comes down --
CRACK! -- on the back of the sharp knife. The chef twists
his wrist -- the Benihana trick -- and magically, the egg
yolk and white drop where he wants them.
An ESPRESSO MACHINE sucks and DRIPS into a china cup.
A REFRIGERATOR door opens and hands reach in to take a
PITCHER OF JUICE. The refrigerator door CLOSES.
Reveal HANNIBAL LECTER, in his bathrobe, as he places his
ingredients on the plate to create a beautiful breakfast.
CUT TO:
A PLASTIC TRAY OF BREAKFAST SLOP
INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - DAY
Is placed on the table. WILL GRAHAM, in shorts and T-shirt,
sits and regards his reconstituted eggs with distaste.
Around him, the sounds of the asylum waking up.
CUT TO:
JACK CRAWFORD
Lost in thought. Thousand-yard stare. Movement distracts
him. He looks up. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY
Hannibal places the breakfast tray in front of Jack who still
wears a rumpled suit from the night before. He takes in the
food. Hannibal sits opposite.
HANNIBAL
You have to eat something, Jack.
You've been up all night. Feed the
body, feed the mind.
Jack stares at the food for a long moment, then:
JACK CRAWFORD
She knew she couldn't beat the
cancer, so she was going to beat it
to the finish line. One way or
another, she was going to win.
It's a strange cocktail of pride and despair.
HANNIBAL
One way or another, she will. All
you can do is hope she finds more
reasons to live than not to.
JACK CRAWFORD
I can't blame her for wanting to
control how she dies.
HANNIBAL
I believe those who can no longer
function at an acceptable level
have the right to die.
JACK CRAWFORD
She cast you in the role of
executioner. She wanted you to let
her die. I'm grateful you didn't.
Jack struggles with his emotion, tries to keep it at bay.
HANNIBAL
As a doctor, I had no choice. As a
philosopher, I had too many. It
wasn't what I could do for Bella,
it was what I couldn't do to you.
I'm a better friend than therapist.
JACK CRAWFORD
You're a great friend.
(then)
My wife is alive and I feel like
I'm mourning a loss. There's a
numbness where relief should be.
Hannibal studies Jack, genuinely sympathetic.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
Do you think she'll try again?
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 2.
HANNIBAL
I don't know. Bella wanted to die.
Your wife took actions to die. I
violated her trust stopping her.
JACK CRAWFORD
You may have violated her trust,
Hannibal, but you've earned mine.
OFF Hannibal considering this --
CUT TO:
A CAR'S FRONT WHEEL
As it pulls to a halt on crunching gravel. We are --
EXT. OBSERVATORY - DAY
Early-morning light sends long shadows across the park.
Reveal this to be FREDDIE LOUNDS'S POV.
INT. FREDDIE LOUNDS'S CAR - DAY
She stares at the observatory through the windshield.
Trepidation and anticipation mix on her face. A decision to
be made. She makes it. Opens the GLOVE COMPARTMENT and
pulls out a gun. Checks its load. And then places it in her
pocket. Then -- steeled -- she gets out of the car.
EXT. OBSERVATORY - DAY
Freddie crunches up the gravel. Each step makes her less
certain of her purpose. And more determined to overcome her
fear. She pauses at the observatory door -- open, of course...
Her hand GRIPS the gun in her pocket. She pushes the door
and steps into the DARKNESS beyond. STAY ON THE DOOR as
Freddie disappears into shadow...
INT. OBSERVATORY - MOMENTS LATER
CLOSE ON FREDDIE'S FACE
CAMERA SLOWLY CREEPS with Freddie from behind as she gingerly
enters the observatory. Walls appear as moving shadows as
beams of light from the outside strike and disappear.
Freddie continues, carefully scanning every darkened corner
with her eyes. Inching CLOSER and CLOSER toward the main
telescope room, the feeling she's about to see something
horrible is palpable.
THE MAIN TELESCOPE ROOM
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 3.
Freddie moves stealthily through it, CAMERA PRECEDING her now
as she steps into a pool of light made by the sun shining
through the open telescope doors. She stops dead. Stares in
shock and horror. Freddie retrieves her camera, raises it to
her eye and as she takes a picture, the FLASH WHITES US OUT.
MATCH CUT TO:
TRAVEL down from the GLARE of OVERHEAD LIGHTS to reveal we
are --
INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - DAY
Hannibal Lecter stands opposite Will Graham's cell. Will
stands beyond the bars, appraising him.
WILL GRAHAM
Surprised Chilton let you see me.
Said I was no longer your patient.
I'm under his exclusive care.
HANNIBAL
Unfortunately, I had to insist.
Were you lying to me, Will? When
you told me you wanted my help?
WILL GRAHAM
No.
HANNIBAL
Dr. Chilton accused me of using
unorthodox therapies during our
conversations. Suggested that I
drove you to kill.
WILL GRAHAM
That's not what I believe.
Will approaches the bars, lowers his voice. Hannibal steps
closer to better hear as Will's volume is but a whisper.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
Chilton gave me a narcoanalytic.
Said it was sodium amytal. But it
was more than that. It felt like a
hypnotic. Midazolam or temazepam.
HANNIBAL
Hypnotics that alter perception and
render you easily suggestible.
WILL GRAHAM
I remembered strobing lights in
your office. You putting a needle
in my arm, injecting me.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 4.
HANNIBAL
What was happening while you were
experiencing this memory?
WILL GRAHAM
Chilton was doing the same. Putting
a needle in my arm, injecting me.
Fluorescent lights were flickering
and he was telling me what I
remembered. I could see it like a
memory, like it happened to me.
HANNIBAL
A memory of injection while you were
being injected.
WILL GRAHAM
Yes.
HANNIBAL
I've treated patients whose
situations were not dissimilar to
yours. People who discover that
some part of their memory, as they
know it, is based on a falsehood.
WILL GRAHAM
Why is he doing this to me?
HANNIBAL
Because you don't know what you can
trust to be true. You only know
what you wish to be true. That can
be taken advantage of, Will.
(then)
We both know it is a painstaking
process to reconstruct a coherent
personal history, piece by piece,
when so many pieces are missing.
WILL GRAHAM
Even the pieces I remember don't
correspond to fact anymore.
HANNIBAL
Certainty will be found with those
who care about you, not those who
condemned you as a psychopath.
WILL GRAHAM
You've never condemned me. You've
always been my friend.
OFF Hannibal allowing a small smile...
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 5.
EXT. OBSERVATORY - DAY
Jack Crawford, followed by an armada of FBI SEDANS and POLICE
SQUAD CARS, emerges from a car.
He marches grimly for the entrance. To one side, two
UNIFORMED OFFICERS are with Freddie Lounds. She sees Jack
and breaks away. Comes toward Jack. She's the last thing he
needs. Jack goes to brush past her, but Freddie gets in the
way. Genuine. Horror still on her face.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Send someone else in there, Jack.
He looks at her, sees genuine concern. But he can't follow
her advice. Goes to brush past. Freddie stops him.
FREDDIE LOUNDS (CONTD)
You should prepare yourself.
(then)
She's one of yours.
Freddie steps back. Jack enters the observatory.
INT. OBSERVATORY - CONTINUOUS
CAMERA TRACKS along Jack as he moves through the observatory.
Jack stops.
BEVERLY KATZ
Stands in PROFILE to Jack, fully clothed, backlit by the
light coming from the open TELESCOPE DOORS. For a second she
looks alive, frozen in a moment.
Jack moves closer and we SLOWLY reveal, as his PERSPECTIVE
CHANGES, that Beverly has been sliced vertically down the
middle. Her near third is encased tightly in between
VERTICAL GLASS SHEETS.
The rest of her body as been CUT INTO THIN VERTICAL STRIPS.
Each encased in glass. These displays are aligned across the
floor of the observatory like a shocking set of museum cases
housing priceless antiquities. In PROFILE, these displays
show a bloody, visceral cross section of Beverly's innards.
BACK TO JACK, his horror.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 6.
ACT ONE
INT. BAU - CORRIDOR - DAY
CAMERA glides down the empty corridor. Silence. Then:
JACK CRAWFORD (V.O.)
At approximately 9 a.m., I received
a call from Freddie Lounds...
Into --
INT. BAU - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY
CAMERA MOVES along the corridor revealing JIMMY PRICE and
BRIAN ZELLER sitting opposite Jack Crawford at his desk. Both
men's faces have fallen with grief and shock. No one speaks.
JACK CRAWFORD (V.O.)
Following an anonymous tip, she
discovered a female body and
immediately alerted my office...
INT. BAU - MORGUE - DAY
The cold steel table. Light glints off stainless steel
fittings and neatly-arranged autopsy tools.
JACK CRAWFORD (V.O.)
I was among the first on the scene.
The victim was our colleague,
Special Agent Beverly Katz.
Into --
INT. BAU - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY
Across the static-free room where Beverly worked. The fibercollection brush rests unused on a countertop.
JACK CRAWFORD (V.O.)
She was killed in the line of duty.
Result of direct adversarial force.
CAMERA MOVES BACK through the empty, desolate BAU.
INT. BAU - WAR ROOM - DAY
CAMERA MOVES over the heads of gathered AGENTS sitting in
rows, all the BAU team is congregated with other agents, all
looking at Jack Crawford at the front of the room.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 7.
JACK CRAWFORD
She will be memorialized at FBI
Headquarters and field offices so
that her ultimate sacrifice will
always be remembered.
Brian Zeller and Jimmy Price in the front row, still numb.
Other agents take in the terrible news. The room is stunned.
ON WILL GRAHAM
We hear the AMBIENT HUM of his circulatory system. His
BREATHING IS TIGHT, a man fighting strong emotions.
INT. BSHCI - PRIVACY ROOM - DAY
He sits at the table, ALANA BLOOM by his side. Faces somber.
Their lips moving, but the words are MOS, in SLO-MO, their
faces slide IN AND OUT OF FOCUS.
BEVERLY KATZ
Stands in the doorway behind the glass. Will Graham averts
his eyes, numb with shock.
WILL'S POV
Jack Crawford and Alana Bloom sit opposite him, their mouths
moving, but Will doesn't hear the words.
The AMBIENT HUM slides away and Will's voice comes up --
WILL GRAHAM
I want to see her.
OFF Will Graham --
INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - DAY
Quick shots, impressionistic:
WILL IS YANKED INTO A STRAITJACKET by MATTHEW BROWN (late
20s, white) and another MALE NURSE.
FETTERS (LEGCUFFS) ARE ATTACHED TO WILL'S ANKLES.
DOUBLE-LEVER-LOCK HANDCUFFS ARE PLACED ON WILL'S WRISTS.
WILL IS LED BACKWARD INTO AN UPRIGHT WHEELCHAIR.
SHACKLED TO ITS FRAME.
CAMERA TRAVELS round behind the chair as Matthew approaches
with a BITE-GUARD MASK.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 8.
WILL'S POV -- as the mask is raised toward his face. It comes
closer and closer. ANGLE from behind the chair on Matthew and
a male nurse as they buckle the mask to Will's head --
PRE-LAP -- the WHINE of a wheelchair lift.
CUT TO:
WILL'S MASKED FACE -- AN ICONIC IMAGE.
STAY ON WILL as we hear the WHINE of the lift being lowered.
CAMERA GOES WIDE to reveal we are --
EXT. OBSERVATORY - DAY
With a BSHCI logo van unloading Will from the back of it.
POV ANGLE -- through a CAMERA LENS, focus markers light up as
it finds Will's face. The SHUTTER clicks repeatedly.
WILL'S POV -- Freddie Lounds as she uses a LONG LENS to
capture him in the mask and restraints.
CUT TO:
JACK CRAWFORD'S REFLECTION
Oblique, seen within the glass side of one of the SLICES of
Beverly. His image imprinted on her viscera. We are --
INT. OBSERVATORY - DAY
PULL AWAY, behind the slices, moving across them, Jack in and
then out of sight. Behind him, OUT OF FOCUS, a figure is
moving closer. PULL FOCUS to reveal it is Will Graham being
pushed in his restraints by Matthew and the male nurse.
CLOSE-UP -- Will's EYES as he sees what Beverly has become.
Horror. TRACK IN -- until we are close enough to see the
horror of the tableau reflected in his eye...
JACK CRAWFORD
Leave us alone.
JUMP OUT WIDE
Jack comes to Will and looks him in the eye, and then moves
round behind him to unstrap the mask. It falls away from
Will's face, his eyes never leaving Beverly. Jack leans in
close and begins to UNSHACKLE Will. CAMERA MOVES around them
both, so close together, the move interspersed with CLOSE
SHOTS as Jack pulls STRAPS and BUCKLES, releasing Will. As
CAMERA does a full circuit, we now see that Will is free.
Jack stares at Will. A nod, then exits. Leaving Will alone.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 9.
ON WILL GRAHAM
He stares at the glass enclosures of Beverly's body. The
echoing, dull PLIP-PLOP of dripping WATER and BLOOD as she
defrosts in her glass containment. He can't do this. Sits
down and puts his head in his hands. Breathing RAGGED.
BEVERLY KATZ
Now stands over him. She regards her dead self.
BEVERLY KATZ
You said you just interpret the
evidence. So interpret the evidence.
And just like that, Will is alone again.
WILL STANDS UP. He stares at WATER and BLOOD DRIPPING
between the glass partitions, from Beverly's thawing body.
Clear puddles slowly CLOUDING WITH RED.
Will forces himself to take in the tableau itself. The
AMBIENT HUM of his CIRCULATORY SYSTEM sounds in his ears.
He closes his eyes.
A PENDULUM
Swings inside Will's mind. FWUM.
His eyes OPEN. Now the PENDULUM swings outside his mind,
across the scene before him. FWUM. The sheets of glass
SLIDE TOGETHER, the slices of her separated by inches instead
of feet. FWUM, the sheets of glass SLIDE UPWARD, out of
sight, leaving a whole Beverly standing, staring. There is
bruising on Beverly's neck, indicating strangulation. FWUM.
The PENDULUM swings and the bruising disappears.
Will stands facing Beverly. FWUM. The PENDULUM swings once
more, and the observatory DARKENS around Will. Will raises
his hand to Beverly's throat as she stares inscrutably, but
can't bring himself to actually touch her.
WILL GRAHAM
I strangle Beverly Katz, looking in
her eyes. She knows me. I know
her. I expertly squeeze the life
from her, rendering her unconscious.
NULL SPACE - ON BEVERLY
She lies FROZEN, Will standing over her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 10.
WILL GRAHAM
I freeze her body, preserving shape
and form so I can cleanly dismantle
her. She cuts like stone.
The BLADE OF A BANDSAW moves down the length of her body.
BACK IN THE OBSERVATORY
Will stands opposite Beverly Katz's inscrutable body.
WILL GRAHAM
I pull her apart, layer by layer,
like she would a crime scene.
SUDDENLY, the glass sheets drop from above and separate
Beverly. They accordion outward to their original positions.
Will is staring at the full tableau once more.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
This is my design.
He stares at Beverly Katz sliced into pieces.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
I will leave no usable evidence.
But she found something. She found
me. What she found is already gone.
WILL'S POV -- behind the glass sheets, we see the WENDIGO MAN
STAG moving opposite Will, as if stalking him. The Wendigo
slides behind the terrible images.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
But what did I take from her?
A TEAR spills from his eye. It leaves his cheek and drops.
CLOSE ON THE THAW WATER
Cloudy with blood where the teardrop joins it.
WILL TURNS
To see Jack Crawford standing behind him.
JACK CRAWFORD
It's the Chesapeake Ripper.
WILL GRAHAM
The Ripper and the Copycat.
(off his look)
One killer. Two masks. Same monster
beneath. Beverly helped me see it.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 11.
JACK CRAWFORD
Help me see it.
Will stifles his initial response, knows Jack can't hear it.
WILL GRAHAM
She was looking for a connection
between the Copycat and the Ripper.
JACK CRAWFORD
And you think she found it.
WILL GRAHAM
She found something.
(then)
Where were you last night?
JACK CRAWFORD
I was at the hospital with my wife.
Will considers that, then:
WILL GRAHAM
I told Beverly to go to you, tell
you everything she knew. Instead,
she went looking for evidence.
(then)
She met the Ripper last night,
Jack. She'll be missing organs.
He had to take his trophies.
JACK CRAWFORD
Who is he, Will?
WILL GRAHAM
Beverly made her connection to the
Ripper. You have to make your own,
Jack. I can't make it for you.
JACK CRAWFORD
Then what did I bring you here for?
Will glances over his shoulder at dead Beverly Katz.
WILL GRAHAM
To say good-bye.
OFF Will Graham's grief...
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 12.
ACT TWO
INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL - DAY
DR. CHILTON stands opposite Will Graham perched in his cage.
DR. CHILTON
Would you like to talk about what
happened at the observatory?
Will stares into middle distance, unresponsive, then:
WILL GRAHAM
You discussed my therapy with
Hannibal Lecter, Frederick.
Counter to our agreement.
DR. CHILTON
I gave him a peek before I snatched
down the shades. Then you whispered
I was planting false memories with
hypnotic benzodiazepines.
WILL GRAHAM
I have appearances to maintain.
DR. CHILTON
Is that quid pro quo?
WILL GRAHAM
Tit for tat.
DR. CHILTON
Beverly Katz paid you a visit
before she was murdered. What did
the two of you talk about?
WILL GRAHAM
You mean, you weren't listening?
DR. CHILTON
You met her in the privacy room,
it's the only room in the facility
I'm not legally allowed to monitor.
Will stifles a scoff, but allows:
WILL GRAHAM
And you let that stop you? We
talked about the Chesapeake Ripper
and then she went and found him.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 13.
DR. CHILTON
Psychopaths can be indifferent to
those sorts of setbacks.
(then)
I consulted with the FBI on the
Chesapeake Ripper murders years
ago. The first time he killed one
of Jack Crawford's people. It's
becoming very personal for Jack.
WILL GRAHAM
I'm taking it personally.
DR. CHILTON
I know something about the monster
you're dealing with. He's a welleducated man. A socially-competent
man. He has surgical experience
or, at the very least, know-how.
WILL GRAHAM
You thought Abel Gideon was the
Chesapeake Ripper.
DR. CHILTON
Evidently, I was wrong about that.
WILL GRAHAM
Gideon knows who the Ripper is.
DR. CHILTON
And I suppose you do, too.
WILL GRAHAM
Wouldn't it be interesting if we
both said it was the same man?
DR. CHILTON
Yes, it would.
WILL GRAHAM
Shame we can't talk to Abel Gideon
about the Chesapeake Ripper. Just
think, Frederick, you could be the
one who catches him after all.
ON CHILTON as he takes that in...
CUT TO BLACK.
FROM DARKNESS
CAMERA PULLS BACK traveling out of one of several inch-wide
separations in Beverly Katz's body. We are --
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 14.
INT. BAU - MORGUE - NIGHT
Beverly Katz lies on a morgue drawer, two thirds of her body
sliced vertically in narrow slabs. Jack Crawford stands over
her, quietly pushing the drawer back into its steal casing and
closing the door with a sad sense of finality. He remains
there a moment, by the closed morgue drawer. CAMERA PULLS
BACK revealing Jimmy Price and Brian Zeller nearby, watching.
JACK CRAWFORD
Beverly isn't your responsibility.
You should be allowed to grieve the
loss, not wade through it.
JIMMY PRICE
What about you, Jack?
JACK CRAWFORD
I can't afford the luxury of grief.
BRIAN ZELLER
No luxury in feeling this way.
JACK CRAWFORD
If I grieve Beverly, I'm not
catching the Ripper.
JIMMY PRICE
We're not running away from what
happened, Jack. Beverly wouldn't.
BRIAN ZELLER
I've already double-checked the
autopsy. What you found at the
observatory wasn't all Beverly.
CLOSE ON KIDNEYS
They are mid-dissection on an evidence tray.
BRIAN ZELLER (CONTD)
These kidneys were placed into her
body after she was killed. They're
not hers. I typed them against DNA
samples. They belong to the Mural
Killer. James Gray.
JACK CRAWFORD
Whoever killed James Gray and sewed
him into his mural also murdered
Beverly. Swapped out their kidneys.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 15.
JIMMY PRICE
The Ripper harvests organs. Now
he's swapping them out?
JACK CRAWFORD
Used to think he killed in sounders
of three or four victims, then
nothing for months, even years. He
wants us to know he never stops.
He just kills as different killers.
BRIAN ZELLER
Beverly. James Gray. What about the
bailiff and judge at Will's trial?
JACK CRAWFORD
Will was convinced whoever killed
the bailiff was not the Ripper.
JIMMY PRICE
Still leaves the judge. There was
no physical evidence that linked
his murder with the bailiff's.
JACK CRAWFORD
Beverly was looking for connections
between the Ripper and the Copycat.
I want to know every move she made.
Trace her cell phone, her GPS. We
have to find what she found.
BRIAN ZELLER
Right now, all we have to go on is,
find her kidneys, find her killer.
OFF Jack Crawford, CAMERA moves round him, into the DARKNESS
beyond...
OUT OF DARKNESS to find --
KITCHEN SHEARS
As they slice translucent plastic. The vacuum breaks and air
quickly bubbles past red fluid. A KIDNEY rolls from the bag
onto a parquet cutting board. We're --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT
Hannibal observes the kidney a moment, turns it just so, a
flash in his eye. He pats the kidney dry, then --
In a series of QUICK CUTS: He deftly trims the membrane from
the kidney-proper.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 16.
He then pushes the kidney through a hand-cranked grinder.
Thick coils of minced kidney extrude from the other side.
A HEAVY, CAST-IRON SKILLET.
The minced kidney is laid into sizzling clarified butter.
Hannibal hits it with a splash of cognac. A FLAME curls high
from the skillet.
MATCH CUT TO:
CLOSE-UP OF A CANDLE FLAME
GO WIDE to reveal --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Hannibal takes a forkful of kidney and a sip of red wine.
DR. GIDEON
Face set, stares intently. We are --
INT. BSHCI - CELL BLOCK - DAY
The security gate BUZZES. Matthew and another nurse and
accompanying SECURITY GUARDS lead a shackled Abel Gideon
through the gate and down the hall, using PRODS attached to a
belt around his JUMPSUIT.
Dr. Gideon takes in his surroundings, unfazed by his fetters.
ON GIDEON'S CELL
One of the guards OPENS the cell and Gideon is shuffle-walked
inside and unshackled. He glances out into the corridor to
see Dr. Chilton leaning on his cane, watching the proceedings.
DR. GIDEON
Frederick.
(beat)
Turns out, all the king's horses and
all the king's men could, in fact,
put Humpty back together again.
(then)
Is everything where I found it?
DR. CHILTON
With one or two exceptions.
(then)
I know people consider me autocratic,
not the most loved of administrators.
But that nurse you murdered. She was
well-liked. So were the attendants
you killed.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 17.
Matthew and the other nurse EXIT down the corridor, leaving
Chilton with the two security guards still inside the cell.
DR. CHILTON (CONTD)
There's nothing like grief and
trauma to pull people together.
(then)
Welcome back, Dr. Gideon.
STAY ON CHILTON as he EXITS.
INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL - DAY
CLOSE SHOTS -- the OPENING of a cage. SHACKLES unlocked.
The inmate sits in the cage. The door mechanism locks shut.
Reveal this is Will Graham. Matthew and the nurse have just
secured him in his cage. Dr. Gideon watches with interest,
wincing and grabbing his ribs as he turns. Matthew and the
nurse move away.
DR. GIDEON
Mr. Graham. You always did look
like the boy next door. Is it true
that you ate that poor Hobbs girl?
WILL GRAHAM
You can call me Will now that we're
of equal social standing.
DR. GIDEON
Is this Frederick's idea of
punishment? Group therapy with the
man who tried to kill me.
WILL GRAHAM
I'd like to talk to you about the
Chesapeake Ripper.
DR. GIDEON
Thought I was the Ripper.
WILL GRAHAM
You're the pretender to the throne.
DR. GIDEON
Are you my new therapist? Somewhat
radical approach. Then, Frederick
always did like that sort of thing.
What did you offer him to bring me
back? I'm the last person he wants
to see. I give him a visceral chill
in his guts. What's left of them.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 18.
WILL GRAHAM
You know who the Chesapeake Ripper
is. You've met him.
DR. GIDEON
So Frederick gets to catch the
Ripper after all. What do you get?
WILL GRAHAM
I want to stop the man who murdered
my friend.
DR. GIDEON
The Ripper's playing out a mannerly
dance, getting close, but not too
close, offering tokens of goodwill,
but not giving away too much.
WILL GRAHAM
He gave you away. I remember the
night in Dr. Lecter's house. The
night I took you there.
DR. GIDEON
The night you tried to kill me.
WILL GRAHAM
How do you think I found you? He
sent me to kill you, Abel.
DR. GIDEON
Am I your evidence? Oh, you're in
trouble, Mr. Graham.
WILL GRAHAM
Why would you protect him?
DR. GIDEON
He's done nothing to me. You were
happy enough to try and kill me
yourself. You have it "in you," as
they say. I'm intrigued to see
what you try when I say no.
(off his look)
He's the Devil, Mr. Graham. He's
smoke. You'll never "catch" the
Ripper. He won't be caught. If you
want him, you'll have to kill him.
WILL GRAHAM
Fair enough.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 19.
ACT THREE
A DOOR SWINGS OPEN
A SILHOUETTED MAN steps forward into the light revealing it
is Hannibal Lecter. He smiles a greeting. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY
Hannibal is holding open the door to his waiting room.
HANNIBAL
Hello, Frederick. Please.
He waves Dr. Chilton in past him.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY
Chilton watches as Hannibal moves toward his liquor cabinet.
HANNIBAL
Is it too early for a brandy?
DR. CHILTON
Depends on the brandy.
HANNIBAL
Frapin, 1888.
DR. CHILTON
Then it's never too early.
CLOSE ON A GLASS
The COGNAC seductively splashes against crystal.
HANNIBAL
You and I are both proponents of
unorthodox treatments of the mind.
Strategies others might not choose
to understand. What I'm trying to
understand is why you would
transfer Abel Gideon back to your
hospital for the unworried unwell.
DR. CHILTON
It wasn't for selfish reasons.
HANNIBAL
Selfishness is the original sin of
man, according to the JudeoChristian morality.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 20.
DR. CHILTON
We're not talking about morality or
ethics, are we, Dr. Lecter? But
rather, concealing their absence.
HANNIBAL
Gideon disemboweled you, Frederick.
Brave of you. Or perhaps wise. To
keep the evidence of your misdeeds
under your own roof.
DR. CHILTON
My misdeeds and yours. Although
Graham is loath to admit it, you
clearly violated his trust.
HANNIBAL
Neither of us controls our stories
well enough to get anything from
exposing the other's misdeeds.
DR. CHILTON
Here's to that.
(he raises his glass)
I brought Gideon back because I
thought he may be useful in Will
Graham's therapy. He shot Gideon,
yet has no memory of it.
HANNIBAL
We know memories, emotions and even
spiritual experiences can be
manipulated while under hypnotics.
DR. CHILTON
Will Graham believes I planted
memories during the narcoanalytic.
Really is an extraordinary claim.
HANNIBAL
Extraordinary claims require
extraordinary evidence.
DR. CHILTON
I'm trying to set Will on the path
to rebuilding his broken brain,
picking up your pieces, as it were.
HANNIBAL
You've analyzed my patient, perhaps
you'll allow me to analyze yours.
(off his look)
I'd like to interview Abel Gideon.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 21.
OFF Chilton as he studies Hannibal and his request --
INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL - DAY
Abel Gideon smiling to himself in his cage.
DR. GIDEON
You don't have to stand way over
there. I'm a cutter, not a pisser.
REVERSE ANGLE to his POV as Hannibal walks toward him. Stops
outside the line on the floor.
HANNIBAL
Hello, Dr. Gideon.
DR. GIDEON
Our brains devote more space to
reading the details of faces than
to any other object. Dare I say,
I've never seen yours before.
HANNIBAL
I'm Dr. Hannibal Lecter. I was
Will Graham's psychiatrist.
DR. GIDEON
He's not a great advertisement for
your abilities, Dr. Lecter.
HANNIBAL
That remains to be seen.
Gideon grins at Hannibal.
DR. GIDEON
I bet you're a devil at the bridge
table. It's a pleasure to make
your acquaintance.
HANNIBAL
The pleasure's mine.
DR. GIDEON
Course, now that I know your name,
I'm aware of you by reputation.
CUT TO:
INT. BSHCI - DR. CHILTON'S OFFICE - DAY
CLOSE ON Dr. Chilton as he listens to this conversation.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 22.
DR. GIDEON (V.O.)
I can see why Chilton both admires
and resents you, Dr. Lecter.
Chilton slow blinks.
CUT TO:
INT. BSCHI - THERAPY HALL - DAY
Hannibal and Gideon.
DR. GIDEON
Esteem in psychiatric circles still
eludes him, even as it clings to
you. He very much wants to be you.
HANNIBAL
He should be more careful what he
wishes for.
DR. GIDEON
You should have been more careful
with Will Graham. That young man
has got a bone to pick.
HANNIBAL
With me?
DR. GIDEON
Who's to say.
HANNIBAL
As a therapist, I'm concerned with
finding ways to overcome
resistance, not build it up.
DR. GIDEON
You built up something, Dr. Lecter.
OFF Hannibal taking that in...
EXT. BALTIMORE STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE CRIMINALLY INSANE - DAY
Hannibal is exiting the asylum as Freddie Lounds is coming
the opposite way with her bag slung over one shoulder. She
pops the cap off her camera and snaps a shot of Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
Rude of you, Miss Lounds.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
(replacing the cap)
Did you think I was above that sort
of thing? You seem disappointed.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 23.
HANNIBAL
We evolved the ability to
communicate disappointment to teach
those around us good manners.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Unfortunately, I didn't evolve the
ability to feel shame.
HANNIBAL
You should explore that in therapy.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
The one time I saw a psychiatrist,
it was under false pretenses.
HANNIBAL
Happy to entertain you for a moregenuine conversation. So what
brings you to the Baltimore State
Hospital for the Criminally Insane?
FREDDIE LOUNDS
I'm interviewing Will Graham. At
his request. Imagine that.
Hannibal is surprised.
HANNIBAL
I'm trying.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Lot of effort to get me through the
door. Will must have the chief of
staff wrapped around his finger.
She carries on up the steps.
FREDDIE LOUNDS (CONTD)
I may take you up on that genuine
conversation, Dr. Lecter.
STAY ON Hannibal watching her go.
HANNIBAL
Please do.
INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL - DAY
Matthew leads Freddie Lounds toward the privacy room.
MATTHEW BROWN
Do not pass him anything but soft
paper. No pens, no pencils. Do not
accept anything he offers you.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 24.
(MORE)
Do not let him touch you. Do not
touch him. I will be right outside.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
I know the drill.
(hands him a business card)
If you ever want to make a buck by
dropping a dime, give me a call.
They have reached the privacy room.
PRIVACY ROOM
Will sits inside, shackled to the table. Matthew opens the
door. Freddie and Will regard each other. The door closes
behind Freddie. She doesn't sit. Stands and appraises Will.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
It's good to see you again, Will.
Let me rephrase that. It's good to
see you in here. Where you belong.
WILL GRAHAM
Thank you for coming.
Freddie places a recorder on the table in front of Will.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Beverly Katz. She was murdered by
the Chesapeake Ripper, wasn't she?
WILL GRAHAM
I don't want to talk about that.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
You don't want to talk about your
friend that was killed. Maybe you
want to talk about mine. You ever
think about Abigail Hobbs?
WILL GRAHAM
I think about her. I grieve her.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
You murdered her.
(then)
Why am I here?
WILL GRAHAM
You have a wide readership.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 25.
MATTHEW BROWN (CONT'D)
FREDDIE LOUNDS
We know the Chesapeake Ripper is a
fan. Enough for me to be his first
call regarding Beverly Katz.
WILL GRAHAM
I have an admirer. And he seems to
fit your demographic, too.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
My demographic is murderers and
people obsessed with murderers.
WILL GRAHAM
Talking about the man who killed
the bailiff and judge at my trial.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
And you think he's your admirer?
WILL GRAHAM
He killed the bailiff to give me an
alibi, and he killed the judge
because he threw that alibi out.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
So is your admirer crazy?
WILL GRAHAM
I don't think anybody who is as
careful as he is could be crazy. I
think he's different. A lot of
people may believe he's crazy, and
reason for that is, he hasn't let
people understand much about him.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
But you understand him. Are you
trying to catch him or contact him?
WILL GRAHAM
I would like to establish a line of
communication. Your website seems
like a good place to do that.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
I could open it up for you. Ads,
editorial, chat rooms, monitoring
incoming mail. I could be discreet.
WILL GRAHAM
In exchange for?
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 26.
FREDDIE LOUNDS
Exclusive rights to your story.
Will stares at her a moment, considers, then:
WILL GRAHAM
It's all yours, Freddie.
She smiles, studying Will, then:
FREDDIE LOUNDS
You want to talk to your admirer,
we'll have to send an invitation.
A WEB PAGE -- THE TATTLECRIME.COM BANNER
Beneath it, an iconic full-screen image of Will Graham in the
BITE-GUARD MASK stares from a screen. Under it, a headline:
"Exclusive: Will Graham First Interview. The Mind of a Killer."
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT
The website is on an iPad on the desk.
CLOSE ON the type: "...I believe this man wanted to help me,
even though his motives for that are unclear. He killed
people in my name. I'd like to ask him why..."
Hannibal reads the screen, his emotions unreadable.
CUT TO:
INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL - NIGHT
Will Graham sits in his cage. CAMERA PULLS BACK revealing
Matthew standing nearby, watching Will. He studies Will a
long moment as Will simply stares into middle distance.
MATTHEW BROWN
Would you like a book, Mr. Graham?
WILL GRAHAM
I have my imagination.
MATTHEW BROWN
We have the most sophisticated
virtual reality system known to man
right between our ears.
WILL GRAHAM
How much longer are they going to
be inspecting my cell?
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 27.
MATTHEW BROWN
It's a routine inspection.
Shouldn't be much longer.
Will drifts back to his imagination. A moment, then:
MATTHEW BROWN (CONTD)
I read your TattleCrime interview.
You're a very articulate man. I
agreed with a lot of what you said.
You're right. People don't
understand much about me. Or you.
At least we understand each other.
ON WILL as he absorbs this. Matthew comes closer, quieter,
leaning on the bars of the cage as he speaks:
MATTHEW BROWN (CONTD)
There's something we don't have. Or
maybe we just evolved not to need.
Like losing the vestigial tail or
being born without an appendix.
(then)
You were hiding inside the FBI.
That's talent. If you hadn't gotten
sick, they would've never found you.
WILL GRAHAM
You chose a great place to hide.
MATTHEW BROWN
If you spend time in a mental
hospital, you pick up the drill.
You could pass as an orderly, get a
job doing it when you get out. They
may never suspect you were ever in.
WILL GRAHAM
You realize Chilton records
everything said in this room.
MATTHEW BROWN
Who do you think wired the mic? Or
unwired the mic, as it is right now.
WILL GRAHAM
You killed the bailiff during my
trial.
MATTHEW BROWN
Thought it might exonerate you. I
read your file often enough. Easy
to recreate your work.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 28.
(MORE)
It was so specific. Though the
bailiff was a bitch to get on that
stag's head.
WILL GRAHAM
And the judge?
MATTHEW BROWN
I shot the bailiff, but I did not
kill the judge. That was somebody
else.
As Will takes that in, a BUZZER SOUNDS. Matthew and Will
turn to see TWO GUARDS ENTER from the far end of the hall.
GUARD
We're all done.
MATTHEW BROWN
They're all done.
Will appraises Matthew, cool and controlled. Matthew opens
the cage and unshackles Will as the guards approach.
WILL GRAHAM
Why were you trying to help me?
MATTHEW BROWN
You ever see the way smaller birds
will mob a hawk on a wire? You and
me, we're the hawks, Mr. Graham.
WILL GRAHAM
Hawks are solitary.
MATTHEW BROWN
That's their weakness. Enough of
those little birds get together and
they chase hawks away. Imagine if
the hawks started working together.
They walk toward the waiting security guards who escort them
through the large glass doors at the far end of the hall.
INT. BSHCI - STAIRWELL/CELL BLOCK - NIGHT
Matthew guides Will down the stairs, toward the cell block,
flanked by the two security guards. He waves at a NURSE in
the station and the block doors OPEN. The two security guards
wait outside the block as Matthew leads Will down the hall.
MATTHEW BROWN
Why did you want to talk to me?
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 29.
MATTHEW BROWN (CONT'D)
WILL GRAHAM
I need a favor.
MATTHEW BROWN
I'm always happy to do a favor for
a friend. Just say the words.
They stop outside Will's cell. The bars slide open and
Matthew leads him in. Unshackles Will. Now Will is free.
The two men regard each other. Matthew smiles.
ON WILL looking at the deadly Matthew. A choice to be made.
WILL GRAHAM
I want you to kill Hannibal Lecter.
Matthew smiles and steps out, and the bars slide back across
Will Graham. Matthew turns and walks back down the corridor.
ANGLE -- INSIDE GIDEON'S CELL
Gideon watches Matthew walk past, then grins in the shadows.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 30.
ACT FOUR
INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - NIGHT
Will Graham sits on his bunk, head down, contemplating
Hannibal's murder. He jerks his head, attempting to crack his
neck. He rubs his shoulder and his fingers move over a bump.
Will runs his hand over his back and finds another bump. He
takes off his shirt, glancing over his shoulder. Small SPIKES
are protruding through the flesh of his back, pushing out as
they grow into a RACK OF ANTLERS. He doubles over in pain.
CAMERA FOLLOWS the ANTLERS as they grow to reveal the rack is
attached to Will Graham's skull.
NEW ANGLE
The ANTLERS RISE INTO FRAME revealing Will has become a
horrible figure, HIS PERSONAL VERSION OF THE WENDIGO.
ALANA BLOOM (O.S.)
Will?
The haunting horrible figure that Will now strikes turns.
ON ALANA BLOOM
She stands on the other side of the bars.
INCLUDE WILL
Perfectly normal, stares at Alana.
WILL GRAHAM
Hi.
ALANA BLOOM
Hi. Sorry to drop in unannounced.
They smile at each other, connection always strong and near
the surface. So much water under their bridge.
WILL GRAHAM
What's on your mind, Dr. Bloom?
ALANA BLOOM
You. You gave an interview to
Freddie Lounds. You despise Freddie
Lounds, Will. It just seemed...
WILL GRAHAM
Suspicious?
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 31.
ALANA BLOOM
"Uncharacteristic" is the word I'd
choose. And slightly worrying.
WILL GRAHAM
Don't have to worry about me.
Alana looks at him. Wants to hold him.
ALANA BLOOM
You've gone through so much, Will.
I don't want you to lose sight of
who you are.
WILL GRAHAM
I haven't lost sight of who I am.
If anything, I'm coming into focus.
ALANA BLOOM
I know you feel powerless about
what happened to Beverly and you
want to do something about it.
WILL GRAHAM
Would that be so bad?
Alana looks confused by that.
ALANA BLOOM
Depends what you're thinking about
doing. There is no solution to
grief, Will. It just is.
WILL GRAHAM
Beverly died because of me.
Because she listened to me. I
won't let that happen again.
Will looks at Alana. Wants to tell her.
ALANA BLOOM
Will? What have you done?
WILL GRAHAM
What I had to.
He turns from the bars and walks back to his bunk. Alana
watches him for a beat, but he doesn't look up.
ON ALANA BLOOM
CAMERA LEADS her down the corridor toward:
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 32.
INT. BSHCI - STAIRWELL - NIGHT
Alana waits briefly at the gate. Finally, it BUZZES and
OPENS. She walks through to find Dr. Chilton on the stairs.
DR. CHILTON
What is it about you, Dr. Bloom? The
most sinister neurochemistry in the
field can't help percolating in your
presence. The interesting ones just
fall at your feet. Will Graham, Abel
Gideon, they're chatty as can be.
You're like catnip for killers.
ALANA BLOOM
Hello, Frederick. I understand Abel
Gideon has returned to the roost.
DR. CHILTON
I believe you and I are his only
surviving psychiatrists. Pulled
the tongues out of all the rest.
ALANA BLOOM
Pulled more than that out of you.
Have you noticed anything different
about Will since Gideon arrived?
DR. CHILTON
That's certainly the point.
Gideon's part of Will's therapy,
helping him reclaim his past.
ALANA BLOOM
Can I see him?
Chilton smiles --
CUT TO:
ALANA BLOOM
As if it is a reverse, but she is now --
INT. BSCHI - THERAPY HALL - NIGHT
Facing Dr. Gideon in his cage.
DR. GIDEON
You look wonderful, Dr. Bloom. That
color brings out your eyes, even in
the dank gloom of this place. Like
a flower blossoming among the weeds.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 33.
ALANA BLOOM
Glad to see you alive, Dr. Gideon.
DR. GIDEON
Mr. Graham didn't do a particularly
good job of killing me. He was
very sick. And a poor shot.
ALANA BLOOM
Good enough shot to put a bullet in
you before you put a blade in me.
DR. GIDEON
For which I am sincerely grateful.
Despite his gunplay, I have a
sneaking admiration for Mr. Graham.
Alana studies him a moment, then:
ALANA BLOOM
I've been wondering about that
night. How'd you know where I live?
DR. GIDEON
A little birdie tweeted in my ear.
ALANA BLOOM
Why would a birdie tweet that?
DR. GIDEON
I imagine said birdie wanted me to
kill you. Or wanted Will Graham to
have reason to kill me. Either way,
you and I are equally expendable.
ALANA BLOOM
You were trying to find the Ripper
that night. Did you?
DR. GIDEON
I found Will Graham.
ALANA BLOOM
Will's not the Chesapeake Ripper.
DR. GIDEON
No, he isn't. Not yet. All the
things that make us who we are.
What has to happen to change those
things? So much has happened to
Will Graham. He's a changed man.
ALANA BLOOM
Maybe he's looking for redemption.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 34.
DR. GIDEON
Mr. Graham isn't interested in
redemption. But revenge, now
there's a trinket he'd value.
ALANA BLOOM
Revenge against who?
(realizing)
He thinks he knows who killed
Beverly Katz?
Gideon looks at her. Thinking.
DR. GIDEON
For the courtesy you have always
shown me, I am going to give you a
gift. I'm going to give you the
chance to save Will from himself.
ALANA BLOOM
How?
DR. GIDEON
He's in a biblical place right now.
But that rage will fade. And when
it does, Will Graham will either be
a murderer or he won't. Up to you.
ALANA BLOOM
He's institutionalized. He's really
in no position to kill anyone.
DR. GIDEON
Not with his own hands. If only he
had a little birdie who could tweet
murder into a sympathetic ear.
Under this, Alana is getting more worried and fearful.
ALANA BLOOM
Who does he want to kill, doctor?
HARD CUT TO:
EXT. BALTIMORE STATE HOSPITAL FOR THE CRIMINALLY INSANE - NIGHT
Adrenaline racing, Alana moves quickly down the steps. Hands
trembling, she pulls her cell phone from her purse. Scrolls
through her contacts urgently. Finds Hannibal Lecter's name.
And hits "CALL."
OFF Alana fearing the worst --
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 35.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT
The phone on his desk rings out. No one there to answer it.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Empty. A telephone ringing off camera. CAMERA pushes into --
THE KITCHEN
It's empty, too.
CUT TO:
AN OLYMPIC-SIZED SWIMMING POOL
SHOT FROM ABOVE, the water FILLS FRAME. Smooth, like a sheet
of glass. A blue, chlorinated piece of modern art. And then
a slight ripple signals the coming of --
A FIGURE
As he bursts THROUGH FRAME, swimming a powerful freestyle
stroke. The only sound, the minimal splash of the swimmer's
powerful arms as he cuts the water.
INT. PRIVATE CLUB - SWIMMING POOL - NIGHT
An otherwise-unoccupied private pool in a high-ceiling, ornate
space. The tiled walls flicker with reflections and shadows.
CAMERA soars across the surface of the pool, keeping time
with the lone swimmer who does a perfect flip turn and glides
back toward the other end. It is --
HANNIBAL
Glistening. Moving gracefully through the water.
UNDERWATER
We watch him come down the pool toward us, his breathing
regular, stroke powerful. Totally engrossed. As he clears
FRAME, we catch a rippling glimpse of a FIGURE standing at
the edge of the water. But before we can even hope to
ascertain who it is, we are back with --
HANNIBAL
Closing in on the end of the pool, he executes another flip
turn. The figure steps into FRAME. Swim cap. Tinted,
reflective goggles -- it's Matthew.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 36.
IN THE POOL
Hannibal's swimming hard, unaware that he's no longer alone.
With a powerful kick, Matthew is suddenly swimming next to
him. Keeping pace. Even crowding him.
Hannibal kicks it into another gear. Pulls away. CAMERA
follows Hannibal, leaving Matthew behind.
AT THE EDGE OF THE POOL
Hannibal stops. Wiping the water from his eyes, he turns
back to size up his overly-competitive pool partner.
HANNIBAL'S POV
The pool is empty.
ON HANNIBAL
He turns to find Matthew standing over him, partially
silhouetted against the overhead lights. Matthew raises his
hand to reveal he's holding a TRANQUILIZER GUN.
He FIRES a dart into Hannibal's chest. Hannibal jerks at the
sting. Pulls the dart free, its cargo already having an
effect. Hannibal reaches for the side of the pool, but his
hand misses. His eyes roll, he goes under, Matthew becoming
a dark, blurred phantom.
UNDERWATER (UPWARD ANGLE)
Rays of reflected light strike the water as Hannibal's body,
unconscious, balletic, artful -- sinks beneath the surface...
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 37.
ACT FIVE
INT. PRIVATE CLUB - STEAM ROOM - NIGHT
The white-tiled space of a large steam room. Long, with a
raised set of steps at one end. Grand and ornate. Heavy
steam hangs in the air, softening and dilating everything.
An indistinct figure moves at the far end...
CAMERA TILTS DOWN to find the hard tile floor.
A RIVULET OF BLOOD
Runs down a central drain in the floor. CAMERA follows it
through the steam to where the BLOOD drips off the bottom
step. MOVE UPWARD to find --
HANNIBAL LECTER
The blood comes from DEEP CUTS in his wrists, which are bound
to a broken mop handle running across his back, arms
outstretched. CHRISTLIKE. He is standing on a BUCKET, a
NOOSE around his neck, the taut rope disappearing upward.
His feet shuffle precariously on the bucket.
MATTHEW BROWN (O.S.)
Judas had the decency to hang
himself in shame at his betrayals.
Matthew steps INTO FRAME. Now clothed, the DART GUN in his
waistband.
MATTHEW BROWN
But I thought you'd need help.
CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT
Jack Crawford stands in the middle of the room.
JACK CRAWFORD
Dr. Lecter?
CAMERA FINDS Alana Bloom on the second-floor library.
ALANA BLOOM
Hannibal?
Jack approaches Hannibal's desk and opens his calendar.
ALANA BLOOM (CONTD)
He's not here. He's not home.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 38.
JACK CRAWFORD
Nothing in his calendar. What is
it you think Will's done?
Before she can respond, Jack's cell phone rings. He answers.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
This is Crawford. Thank you.
(looks at Alana)
We have a trace on his cell.
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON A BOOK COVER
PULL BACK to reveal we are --
INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - NIGHT
Will Graham sits on his bunk. Nothing more he can do now.
The pieces are in play. CAMERA finds the sink. The steady
drips hit the basin. PLOP. PLOP. PLOP.
CLOSE ON THE FAUCET
Water continues to drip in a steady succession. DRIP. DRIP.
DRIP. And then the water becomes BLOOD. DRIP. DRIP. DRIP.
The BLOOD-DROPS marble the water collected in the basin.
CUT TO:
INT. PRIVATE CLUB - STEAM ROOM - NIGHT
DRIP. DRIP. DRIP. Blood spatters on the marble. CAMERA
PANS UP to find Hannibal losing the fight to stay conscious.
He wobbles, but regains his balance.
MATTHEW BROWN
Did you know that the phrase "to kick
the bucket" came from exactly this
situation? You could kick it away
now yourself and it'd all be over.
Quicker than bleeding out. It's a
choice. Life is about choices. Good
choices. Bad choices.
HANNIBAL
Hobson's choice. Another old phrase.
(beat)
You're a nurse at the hospital.
You're setting a standard of care.
Are you Will Graham's admirer?
MATTHEW BROWN
We have a mutual respect.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 39.
HANNIBAL
Will's not what you think he is.
He's not a murderer.
MATTHEW BROWN
He is now. At least by proxy.
HANNIBAL
He asked you to do this?
MATTHEW BROWN
What are friends for?
Hannibal considers that, impressed by Will's moxie.
MATTHEW BROWN (CONTD)
Now I'm going to ask you a few yesor-no questions while you still
have enough blood coursing through
your brain to answer them. Ready?
HANNIBAL
Ready.
MATTHEW BROWN
(looking closely)
Did you kill that judge?
Hannibal stares, but it's enough for Matthew to hear "yes."
MATTHEW BROWN (CONTD)
I can ask you yes-or-no questions,
you don't have to say a word and
I'll know what the answer is. The
pupil dilates with specific mental
efforts. You dilate, that's a
"yes." No dilation equals "no."
(then)
Are you the Chesapeake Ripper?
Hannibal smiles and his head lolls forward and his feet slip.
He recovers and looks down at the grinning Matthew.
MATTHEW BROWN
How many times have you seen someone
cling on to a life not really worth
living? Eking out a last few
seconds. Wondering why they bother.
HANNIBAL
I know why. Life is precious.
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 40.
Matthew looks at Hannibal, incredulous, then starts to laugh.
CUT TO:
INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - NIGHT
CLOSE ON the sink. The drum of the dripping tap slows -- and
stops. Silence. Will Graham looks up from his book.
CUT TO:
INT. PRIVATE CLUB - SWIMMING POOL - NIGHT
Jack Crawford and Alana Bloom come into the pool area. Jack
is disappointed to see the pool empty. Motions to a door at
the far end. They look at each other. Jack draws his gun.
CUT TO:
INT. PRIVATE CLUB - STEAM ROOM - NIGHT
Matthew stands in front of Hannibal as he DRIFTS and then
STARTS, regains his balance. Steam wreathing them.
MATTHEW BROWN
Look at you. The Chesapeake Ripper.
Wonder what they'll call me. The
Iroquois used to eat their enemies
to take their strength. Maybe your
murders become my murders. I'll be
the Chesapeake Ripper now.
HANNIBAL
Only if you eat me.
Hannibal's eyes flutter open and closed. His POV -- past
Matthew.
JACK CRAWFORD
Coming through the steam at the far end.
Hannibal looks down at Matthew. The dart gun in his waistband.
ON JACK CRAWFORD
JACK CRAWFORD
Hands where I can see them.
Matthew looks frozen. Looks at Hannibal who smiles. Matthew
shrugs. Not about to die. He starts to raise his hands.
HANNIBAL
(shouts)
He's got a gun, Jack!
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 41.
Matthew stares at Hannibal, face falling. BAM! A highcaliber bullet crashes into his chest and sends him spinning
OUT OF FRAME.
ON JACK CRAWFORD, smoking gun outstretched.
ON THE FLOOR
Matthew coughs up blood. Looks to Hannibal. And KICKS THE
BUCKET BENEATH HIS FEET.
HANNIBAL HANGS.
ON JACK, horrified, running toward Hannibal. He slips in the
WATER and BLOOD.
FALLS TO THE TILES
And what seems like an eternity away, Hannibal Lecter
struggles at the end of a rope.
CLOSE ON HANNIBAL
Kicking as his throat is crushed under his own weight.
Things dim. The world is fading.
Jack scrambles to his feet.
And then Jack is there. He lifts Hannibal up. Holding him
around his thighs, his clothes becoming SLICK with Hannibal's
blood. Jack pushes him higher to create slack. Hannibal's
eyes meet Jack's. As Jack holds on --
ALANA BLOOM
Stands in the steam room. Her POV -- Jack holding up
Hannibal. Her face falls in horror.
JACK CRAWFORD
Call an ambulance!
ON JACK CRAWFORD as he holds the weight of his friend, blood
dripping onto his face. Soaked and desperate.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #205 "Mukozuke" FINAL DRAFT 11/03/13 42.
Futamono
Teleplay by
Andy Black
and
Bryan Fuller
&
Scott Nimerfro
&
Steve Lightfoot
Story by
Andy Black
Directed by
Tim Hunter
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #206 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2014 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot
Executive Producer: Chris Brancato
Consulting Producer: Jesse Alexander 
HANNIBAL
"Futamono"
TEASER
A HARD, SOMBER CHORD IS STRUCK ON THE HARPSICHORD...
OVER BLACK, the chord reverberates and then a single note
begins again, like a ray of hope, as music begins --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
CLOSE-UP -- A HAND plays along the white-on-black keys of a
harpsichord. As it moves up the scale, CAMERA follows at
CLOSE FOCUS, only three or four keys sharp as they are played.
EXTREME CLOSE-UPS -- a key is depressed. It rocks on a PIVOT
and lifts the JACK at the other end to which a PLECTRUM is
attached.
The plectrum plucks a string which VIBRATES and a note
sounds. As the jack falls again, the plectrum raises.
TRAVEL ACROSS the strings as the scale continues, as each
jack raises and a string is plucked. Rhythmic and hypnotic.
The scale becomes a melody and now seemingly-random jacks
rise and fall as the strings are plucked.
The hands move across the keyboards. We see STITCHED WOUNDS in
the wrists, still raw. A spot of blood WEEPS onto the keys.
A SOMBER REFRAIN moves toward a lighter, more-uplifting
sound. And then STOPS. The dampers fall on the strings and
silence is sudden. The echo of the music still in the air.
Reveal the hands belong to HANNIBAL, a sheet of paper on the
music stand before him, the staff partially filled with
musical notation. He lifts a fountain pen and carefully
marks the next few notes.
EXTREMELY CLOSE as the pen blooms and draws the notes, ink
soaking into the heavyweight paper...
CUT TO:
JACK CRAWFORD
CAMERA FOLLOWS him, escorted by a SECURITY GUARD, down the
stairs and into --
INT. BSHCI - STAIRWELL/THERAPY HALL - NIGHT
WILL GRAHAM stands almost at attention in his cage as Jack
approaches, somber and slow.
WILL GRAHAM
You're moving smoothly and slowly,
Jack, carrying your concentration
like a brimming cup.
JACK CRAWFORD
Hannibal Lecter was almost murdered
by an employee of this hospital.
An attendant we believe killed the
bailiff and judge in your trial.
WILL GRAHAM
He killed the bailiff. He didn't
kill the judge. That was the
Chesapeake Ripper.
JACK CRAWFORD
You know this?
WILL GRAHAM
He told me.
JACK CRAWFORD
And then you told him to kill
Hannibal Lecter.
WILL GRAHAM
Nothing I said made that happen,
Jack. It just happened.
JACK CRAWFORD
Don't seem too broken up about it.
WILL GRAHAM
There is a common emotion we all
recognize and have not yet named.
The happy anticipation of being
able to feel contempt.
JACK CRAWFORD
You have contempt for Hannibal.
WILL GRAHAM
I have contempt for the Ripper. I
have contempt for what he does.
JACK CRAWFORD
What does he do, Will?
WILL GRAHAM
What does he do? What is the first
and principal thing he does? What
need does he serve by killing?
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 2.
JACK CRAWFORD
He harvests organs.
WILL GRAHAM
No. That's only the action of what
he does. Why does he need to do
it? The Ripper kills in sounders
of three or four, in quick order.
Do you know why? I know why.
JACK CRAWFORD
Tell me.
WILL GRAHAM
Because if he waits too long, then
the meat spoils.
JACK CRAWFORD
He's eating them? Hannibal Lecter
is Garret Jacob Hobbs? A cannibal?
WILL GRAHAM
Not like Garret Jacob Hobbs. Hobbs
ate his victims to honor them. The
Ripper eats his victims because
they're no better to him than pigs.
JACK CRAWFORD
With the exception of Beverly Katz,
there's no connection between
Hannibal and any Ripper victims.
WILL GRAHAM
No immediate connection. He likely
identifies his meals years in
advance, earmarks them, then waits
with the patience of a python.
Jack looks at Will in frustration.
JACK CRAWFORD
Hannibal Lecter is not the
Chesapeake Ripper.
WILL GRAHAM
Who else do you know with unusual
culinary tastes? If the Ripper's
killing, you can bet Hannibal
Lecter's planning a dinner party.
(off Jack's look)
You and I probably sipped wine
while swallowing the people we were
trying to give justice, Jack.
(beat)
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 3.
(MORE)
Who does he have to kill before
you'll open your eyes?
CUT TO:
ALANA BLOOM -- SLOW MOTION
She opens her eyes after a blink, looking into CAMERA.
CLOSE ON A RAW HEART
It rests on a cutting block. A knife ENTERS FRAME and begins
to cut the heart in pieces.
HANNIBAL (O.S.)
A remarkably-lean organ, the heart.
CAMERA reveals we are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT
Alana watches Hannibal cut the heart into morsels for the
skewers. We can see the bandages on his arms as he cuts. He
scrapes pieces of meat into a bowl of marinade, one by one.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Funny how we revere and romanticize
a simple pump. Merely a muscle.
Yet such a potent symbol of life
and the things that make us human,
good and bad. Love and ache.
Alana takes the pieces of heart meat from the marinade and
skewers them with pieces of vegetables between each morsel.
ALANA BLOOM
All of them skewered.
HANNIBAL
It's a thematic dish. My heart
certainly feels skewered.
ALANA BLOOM
You have the scars to prove it.
She touches the marks on Hannibal's neck where he was hanged.
HANNIBAL
I feel as though that noose were
still around my neck. It's strange
to have nightmares. Never used to.
ALANA BLOOM
Don't make the mistake I've made.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 4.
WILL GRAHAM (CONT'D)
HANNIBAL
Which is?
ALANA BLOOM
Being your own psychiatrist. I'm
always assessing my feelings
instead of acting on them.
HANNIBAL
It's the safest course.
ALANA BLOOM
You have to find a better way to
deal with what happened to you.
HANNIBAL
I'm metabolizing the experience by
composing a new piece of music.
ALANA BLOOM
Harpsichord or theremin?
HANNIBAL
Harpsichord. Stravinsky said, "A
true composer thinks about his
unfinished work the whole time;
he's not always conscious of this,
but he's aware of it when he
suddenly knows what to do."
ALANA BLOOM
Do you know what to do?
HANNIBAL
I need to get my appetite back.
He smiles at her and raises his glass. Sips red wine.
CUT TO:
HANDS ON A ROLODEX
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT
The Rolodex is set on the counter and Hannibal flicks through
it. Pauses at one card, ponders and then keeps flipping.
Stops. Pulls out a card which reads: "SHELDON ISLEY -
BALTIMORE COUNCILMAN."
CLOSE ON A RECIPE FILE
The cards spin, finding a card for STEAK AND KIDNEY PIE.
CLOSE ON Hannibal as he regards the card.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 5.
PRE-LAP: Hannibal's sonata begins to play once more over --
A BEAUTIFUL, DELICATE PURPLE BLOOM
PULL OUT to reveal more of them, surrounded by white and
yellow flowers, carefully arranged.
We KEEP PULLING AWAY to reveal these bright, gorgeous flowers
occupy the abdominal cavity of a DEAD MAN, his ribs pulled
outward to form a cradle for the blooms.
KEEP MOVING BACKWARD to reveal the whole man. In a perfect
merging of flesh and flora, lush greenery twines through
SHELDON ISLEY's OPENED, GUTTED BODY.
His hollowed-out abdominal cavity houses an intricate pattern
of flowers. Leaves, branches and blooms explode skyward from
his upward-stretched arms. He is merged with the roots of a
tree, his body melding with the trunk.
Keep PULLING BACK to reveal we are --
EXT. PARKING LOT - EARLY MORNING
The TREE stands in a sea of black asphalt. A beautiful blossom
floats from its branches, slowly falling to the ground.
We get WIDER AND WIDER, taking in the man-tree, the only
obstacle to a stretching horizon amidst the flat vista of the
parking lot.
Until our FRAME FINALLY PULLS BACK to reveal the back of a
PARKING ATTENDANT in the foreground, staring at the tree. He
carries a LUNCH PAIL, which he drops in shock.
As the first rondo of Hannibal's sonata concludes...
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 6.
ACT ONE
EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY
WIDE ANGLE -- the man-tree on the horizon, asphalt stretching
toward us.
TIME-LAPSE -- as POLICE VEHICLES enter the frame, first a PD
CRUISER, then another, an AMBULANCE and then an FBI CRIME
SCENE VAN. An ever-increasing cordon of flashing lights and
POLICE OFFICERS. Finally, a BLACK SUV rolls INTO THE FRAME.
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON JACK CRAWFORD
He takes in the scene. Looks at the tortured figure built into
the tree, his frozen scream. JIMMY PRICE and BRIAN ZELLER are
starting to assess the tableau. They talk. Jack just stares.
JIMMY PRICE
He's been literally grafted in
place -- these are living roots.
BRIAN ZELLER
He's got varicose vines. Threaded
through from his heels, under his
legs, his back, through his torso
and out his fingertips.
(impressed)
Followed some pretty tricky
endoscopic surgical paths.
JIMMY PRICE
Chesapeake Ripper usually cherrypicks his organs. He took every
last one. Except for the lungs.
BRIAN ZELLER
Stocking his shelves.
JACK CRAWFORD
There'll be something about the
lungs. Why else leave them?
Jack steps forward and looks at the corpse. The artfullyarranged flowers. It offends him.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
The time he devotes to what he
does. He takes real pride.
Belladonna for the heart, a chain
of white oleander for the
intestines, ragwort for the liver.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 7.
JIMMY PRICE
The flowers are all poisonous.
JACK CRAWFORD
This is judgment. Ripper believes
his victim was toxic. A poisonous
man. Who is he to moralize?
Jack stares at the body like it speaks just to him.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
He's the eye of a storm. Working
in a place of calm while the winds
blow us all over. He's so damn
certain, it makes me sick.
CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT
CAMERA PROWLS revealing Jack and Hannibal silhouetted by the
fireplace, brandy snifters glowing in their hands.
JACK CRAWFORD
Bella's alive. And seemingly
accepting of that fact for now.
HANNIBAL
She'll be alive for as long as she
wants to be. Not a moment of that
will be negotiable to you or me.
Jack considers that a moment, then:
JACK CRAWFORD
You gave me my wife back, Hannibal,
then the Ripper took Beverly. Can't
help feeling one paid for the next.
HANNIBAL
Paid who? God?
JACK CRAWFORD
The piper. Beverly was looking for
me the night I was in the hospital
with Bella. She knew I was there,
she knew who I was there with.
HANNIBAL
There is no causal relation between
Bella's life and Beverly's death.
Jack is not so sure that is true.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 8.
JACK CRAWFORD
If Bella had died, Beverly would
have found me. Bella lived. So
Beverly left me alone with my wife.
What she did next got her killed.
HANNIBAL
You can't take that on, Jack.
JACK CRAWFORD
Not taking it on. I'm making note.
HANNIBAL
What you're making are connections
where there aren't any.
JACK CRAWFORD
There are connections. There is a
pattern taking shape and I just
have to convince my eyes to see it.
HANNIBAL
I've convinced myself of something
I refused to see for a long time.
JACK CRAWFORD
All it took was Will Graham trying
to kill you to see it?
HANNIBAL
Yes. I can't help Will. I can't
trust him. He's in a dark place
where the shadows move. It's not
safe to stand with him anymore.
JACK CRAWFORD
He knows something's there. In the
shadows. Close to him. But he
can't see it. I feel the same way.
(then)
We found another Ripper victim. A
Baltimore councilman.
HANNIBAL
I'm sorry, Jack. I can't. Not
only do I have to let Will go, I
have to let this all go. I nearly
died. Would have if it weren't for
you. Can't dwell on death anymore.
JACK CRAWFORD
I don't blame you.
Hannibal puts down his drink. Turns to Jack.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 9.
HANNIBAL
We both have to transform our
misfortunes into life-enhancing
events. We have to facilitate our
own post-traumatic growth, Jack. We
have to strengthen our social ties
and resist the temptation to brood.
Jack raises his glass and Hannibal does the same.
JACK CRAWFORD
When you figure out how you do
that, you let me know.
HANNIBAL
I'm going to start by hosting a
dinner party. I hope you'll come.
JACK CRAWFORD
(stares, then)
I wouldn't miss it.
OFF Jack --
CUT TO:
INT. BSHCI - CELL BLOCK - DAY
Will Graham lies on his bunk. GIDEON lies against the
adjoining wall in his neighboring cell. TRACK INTO THEM and
the shot becomes a stylized TWO-SHOT.
WILL GRAHAM
You should have let him die.
DR. GIDEON
Woulda. Shoulda. Coulda.
WILL GRAHAM
He's going to kill you, you know.
DR. GIDEON
Can't get me in here.
WILL GRAHAM
Here is exactly where he'll get
you, Abel. The moment I convinced
the chief of staff to put you in a
cell next to me, you were stamped
with an expiration date. Anyone
who gets too close, gets got.
Miriam Lass. Abigail Hobbs.
Beverly Katz. He's the Devil,
remember. Smoke.
(then, to the ceiling)
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 10.
(MORE)
I'd be very nervous if I were Dr.
Chilton. He's getting close, too.
INT. BSHCI - DR. CHILTON'S OFFICE - DAY
CHILTON listens to headphones, reclining on the couch, a
shadow falling over his face.
BACK TO:
INT. BSHCI - CELL BLOCK - DAY
As before.
DR. GIDEON
Frederick's in mortal danger and
you want an apology from me?
WILL GRAHAM
I don't want an apology. I want you
to know you made a mistake. Only
way you and Frederick are going to
get out of this alive is if the
Chesapeake Ripper is stopped.
DR. GIDEON
Trying to find your taste for it?
WILL GRAHAM
Taste for what? Blood?
DR. GIDEON
Doesn't sit well on your palette,
does it? Like copper on your
tongue. Not your flavor.
WILL GRAHAM
Hannibal Lecter deserves to die.
DR. GIDEON
I tried to save a severely-burned
patient once with grafts of someone
else's skin. That skin seemed to
agree with the man. For a few days.
And then it withered and died.
WILL GRAHAM
Wanting to kill Hannibal Lecter is
just a phase? Permanent solution
to a temporary problem?
DR. GIDEON
Wearing someone else's skin doesn't
always work. Our immune system
recognizes it as foreign, kills it.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 11.
WILL GRAHAM (CONT'D)
(MORE)
I recognize what is you and what is
not you. You didn't bring me here
to help you kill Hannibal Lecter.
WILL GRAHAM
I brought you here to bear witness.
DR. GIDEON
To tell Jack Crawford that I sat in
Hannibal Lecter's cobalt blue dining
room? An ostentatious herb garden,
Leda and the Swan over the
fireplace. And you. Having a fit
in the corner. That's where I asked
him if he was the Chesapeake Ripper.
And he avoided the question by
suggesting I kill Alana Bloom.
WILL GRAHAM
Yes. Tell Jack that.
DR. GIDEON
I'll tell Jack Crawford everything
if you tell me why Hannibal did it.
WILL GRAHAM
He wanted to see what would happen.
If you did kill Alana. Or if I
killed you. He was just curious.
(then)
And you saved his life.
DR. GIDEON
I wasn't trying to save Hannibal
Lecter. I was trying to save you.
CAMERA PUSHES IN on Will and we...
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON A PLAYBACK RECORDER READOUT
The NUMBERS count in seconds as we HEAR:
DR. GIDEON (V.O.)
That's where I asked him if he was
the Chesapeake Ripper. And he
avoided the question by suggesting
I kill Alana Bloom...
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal we are --
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 12.
DR. GIDEON (CONT'D)
INT. BAU - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY
Dr. Chilton, fingers steepled under his chin, breaks finger
formation and presses "stop." MOVE AROUND HIM to reveal Jack
sits opposite him. Staring at Chilton.
JACK CRAWFORD
Abel Gideon is a lunatic.
DR. CHILTON
He's psychotic, not psychic.
JACK CRAWFORD
We know Gideon has a history of
being susceptible to suggestion.
DR. CHILTON
The simplest explanation as to why
he can describe Hannibal Lecter's
home is that he was there.
JACK CRAWFORD
Will could have given him details.
DR. CHILTON
No such details were given. There
hasn't been a word exchanged
between those two men in my
hospital that I haven't heard.
JACK CRAWFORD
Then you're aware what Will is
accusing Hannibal Lecter of.
DR. CHILTON
Oh, yes. I am aware. I am
intrigued. And I am grateful that
I have trouble digesting animal
proteins, as the last meals I've
shared with Hannibal Lecter have
been salads.
JACK CRAWFORD
You believe it?
DR. CHILTON
Hannibal once served me tongue and
made a joke about eating mine. It's
hard not to at least consider it.
JACK CRAWFORD
Will is delusional. And wants to
reinforce his delusion. With you.
With me. With Abel Gideon.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 13.
DR. CHILTON
That doesn't mean he's not right.
JACK CRAWFORD
No, it doesn't. Chesapeake Ripper
is murdering again and Hannibal
Lecter is throwing a dinner party.
Jack can hardly believe the words as they leave his mouth.
DR. CHILTON
He fits the profile. He's attracted
to medical and psychological fields
because they offer power over man.
Cannibalism is an act of dominance.
JACK CRAWFORD
You're afraid.
He is, but does his best to hide it.
DR. CHILTON
Have you seen Hannibal's drawings?
JACK CRAWFORD
Yes.
DR. CHILTON
He's a remarkable artist. Just
imagine what he creates when not
restricted to a canvas.
CAMERA PUSHES IN ON Jack Crawford considering that...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 14.
ACT TWO
CLOSE ON SHEET MUSIC
A pen scrawls notes on bars. A harpsichord note takes us to:
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY
CAMERA PUSHES IN ON Hannibal performing the latest evolution
of his composition. The piece is tonally charged, but bent
toward obscuring obvious key centers and harmonic and melodic
traditions. Very much an extension of his own personality.
CLOSE ON HANNIBAL -- SLOWER MOTION
CAMERA DRIFTS across his face as he comes to a chord
progression, his expression darkens. The phrase simply isn't
working for him. He stops playing abruptly.
CLOSE ON HARPSICHORD KEYS
He starts the phrase again, changing it slightly. It still
doesn't work. Hannibal closes his eyes and takes a calm
breath. CAMERA PUSHES IN until he finally opens his eyes.
CLOSE ON THE SCORE SHEET
The fountain pen scratches the last measure from his sonata.
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON THE TREE MAN
Propped up in the middle of a room. We are --
INT. BAU - MORGUE - DAY
Standing on a foot ladder, Brian Zeller runs a small CHAINSAW
through the branches rising out of the Tree Man's head.
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal Jack Crawford and Jimmy Price
wearing PROTECTIVE EYEWEAR, speaking over the chainsaw BUZZ.
JIMMY PRICE
His name is Sheldon Isley.
Baltimore city councilman.
Zeller ceases chainsawing to add:
BRIAN ZELLER
Ripper's a politician now.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 15.
JIMMY PRICE
At least a conservationist. Five,
six years ago, Isley brokered a
woodlands development deal despite
the disapproval of the EPA.
JACK CRAWFORD
Councilman Isley paved paradise and
put up a parking lot.
JIMMY PRICE
What he paved was an important
nesting habitat for endangered
songbirds. The son of a bitch.
Zeller reaches into the branches and pulls out a nest.
BRIAN ZELLER
Autopsy gave us what you'd expect
from the Chesapeake Ripper. Premortem surgical dissection, latex
glove impressions, body posed
before rigor set in.
JACK CRAWFORD
What have those lungs coughed up?
BRIAN ZELLER
Water. Councilman drowned. Lungs
are filled with aspirated water.
Zeller points out the Tree Man's legs.
BRIAN ZELLER (CONTD)
He was standing in water up to his
thighs for forty-eight to seventytwo hours prior to his death.
JACK CRAWFORD
To feed the tree?
BRIAN ZELLER
It's possible.
Price guides Jack to a microscope with a video feed.
JIMMY PRICE
Here's the exciting part. Tree Man
actually bears fruit.
INSERT ON A PLASMA SCREEN: Curious, geometric single-cell
creatures flick back and forth.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 16.
JIMMY PRICE (CONTD)
Diatoms. Unicellular colonies.
Good as fingerprints. No two water
sources have the same diatom
population.
JACK CRAWFORD
The water in his lungs gives us a
location of death. Show me.
INSERT ON A PLASMA SCREEN: A map of Virginia.
BRIAN ZELLER
Fifty-mile radius -- here.
He traces a circle in the Virginia woods. Jack stares at it,
contemplating his next move.
CUT TO:
EXT. DOG PARK - DAY
SUNLIGHT shines through AUTUMN LEAVES. We come down through
the branches to a carpet of GOLD and RED.
A posse of DOGS runs across it, enjoying the space and air.
FIND Jack Crawford and Alana Bloom walking as they watch.
ALANA BLOOM
My head is full of conspiracies.
There are too many versions of
events. He said. She said. He
said. He said. She said. It's
maddening.
JACK CRAWFORD
In my experience, that usually
means a lot of people are lying
about a lot of different things.
ALANA BLOOM
The one thing I have clarity on is,
Will Graham tried to kill Hannibal.
JACK CRAWFORD
And he believes it was a righteous
act. May be guilty, but he doesn't
feel guilty about that call.
ALANA BLOOM
That says more about Will than it
does about Hannibal. If you're
worried about him, talk to his
psychiatrist. He gave you consent.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 17.
JACK CRAWFORD
We can't find Dr. Du Maurier. Left
notice she would be traveling and
would prefer not to be contacted.
Last anyone has heard from her.
ALANA BLOOM
Why'd you say it like that, Jack?
Jack more or less ignores the question, turning to the dogs.
There appears to be one more dog in the pack.
JACK CRAWFORD
Did you get a new dog?
ALANA BLOOM
I... yes. I'm fostering. A dog I
found. At an animal shelter.
JACK CRAWFORD
Swapping one stray for another?
ALANA BLOOM
I haven't given up on Will. Just reevaluating who I think he's become.
JACK CRAWFORD
I don't think Will has changed. I
think he has adapted.
ALANA BLOOM
Adapted to what? Hannibal?
JACK CRAWFORD
I don't know.
ALANA BLOOM
(shakes her head)
Hannibal has been a teacher, a
mentor and a friend. I knew him
before you, or Will or any of this.
JACK CRAWFORD
I don't claim to know anybody.
ALANA BLOOM
I look at these dogs and I see the
best of Will, but he is lying. He's
manipulating. He's playing a game
and he's not scared. Not anymore.
That's what's making him dangerous.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 18.
She bends as a NEW DOG brings a stick to her. She rubs its
head, throws the stick into the LEAVES. New Dog races off.
CAMERA PUSHES IN ON Jack considering Alana's loyalties...
CUT TO:
INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL - DAY
CAMERA PUSHES IN ON Will Graham standing in his therapy cage.
He squeezes his eyes shut, wrapping hands around the bars.
CLOSE ON THE BARS
Will's fists tighten on the metal. FOCUS on hands and the
bars, Will OUT OF FOCUS beyond them, but CLEAR ENOUGH to see
a BRAMBLE OF ANTLERS beginning to form around him.
CLOSE ON THE TOP OF CAGE
The NUBS OF ANTLERS RISE through the roof of the cage,
growing like thorny vines between the wire mesh.
WIDER -- THE CAGE
ANTLERS EXTEND from the cage, sharp and deadly, surreal.
CLOSE ON WILL'S EYES
Still squeezed shut, they finally relax and OPEN.
WILL GRAHAM
Hello, Dr. Lecter.
POP WIDE
Hannibal Lecter is standing outside Will Graham's cage.
HANNIBAL
I feel like I've been watching our
friendship on a split screen. The
friendship I perceived on one side
and the truth on the other.
WILL GRAHAM
It's a terrible feeling, isn't it?
HANNIBAL
You've been lying to me, Will.
WILL GRAHAM
I don't have a gauge for reality
that works well enough to know if
I've been lying or not.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 19.
HANNIBAL
You understand the reality of
Beverly Katz's death. You
understand your role in that.
WILL GRAHAM
What was my role?
HANNIBAL
Beverly died at your behest.
You're as angry with yourself as
you are with whoever murdered her.
WILL GRAHAM
Actually, I'm not. I'm singularly
angry at whoever murdered her.
HANNIBAL
You tried to kill me, Will. It's
hard not to take that personally.
However, if I were Beverly's
murderer, I'd applaud your effort.
WILL GRAHAM
I'm no more guilty of what you've
accused me of than you are of what
I have accused you of.
HANNIBAL
Jack Crawford and Alana Bloom
believe you were responsible.
WILL GRAHAM
Where does responsibility begin and
end, Dr. Lecter? With a final act
or the events that led to it?
HANNIBAL
I don't expect you to feel selfloathing or regret or shame. You
knew what you were doing and you
made your own decisions. Decisions
that were under your control.
WILL GRAHAM
You think I'm in control?
HANNIBAL
I think you're more in control now
than you've ever been.
(then)
You found a way to hurt me, Will.
I wonder how many more people are
going to be hurt by what you do.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 20.
(MORE)
(then)
I'll give Alana Bloom your best.
It's a veiled threat and they both know it.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Good-bye, Will.
OFF Will, not amused...
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 21.
HANNIBAL (CONT'D)
ACT THREE
HANDS FLICK THROUGH THAT ROLODEX
A card: "Walter Givens - Real Estate." It is plucked from
the box.
CUT TO:
MEAT -- LIVER AND PANCREAS, AS THEY ARE SLICED
A sudden hot sizzle as they drop into a pan of butter.
CUT TO:
INT. BAU - MORGUE - DAY
TECHNICIANS wheel a sheet-covered body into the morgue where
Tree Man now lies on a gurney.
CUT TO:
ROLODEX
A card: "Jackson Bender - Auto Sales."
CUT TO:
A LONG BONE
As it is cracked for its marrow.
CUT TO:
INT. BAU - MORGUE - DAY
Another gurney is wheeled into the swiftly-filling space.
Zeller and Price waiting to receive it.
REVERSE ANGLE ON Jack Crawford watching this escalation of
bodies through the glass.
CUT TO:
INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL/STAIRWELL - DAY
CAMERA CRAWLS OVER A ROW OF CAGES to reveal Jack Crawford
standing in front of a single cage holding Dr. Gideon. Dr.
Frederick Chilton stands a respectful distance away.
DR. GIDEON
Im sure you and Frederick have had
many a conversation about my bad
behavior. How does he describe me?
Dr. Chilton chimes in from where hes perched near the wall.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 22.
DR. CHILTON
A pure sociopath, by the book.
DR. GIDEON
Do you mean your book, Frederick?
DR. CHILTON
Yes.
Gideon turns to Jack, ignoring Chilton:
DR. GIDEON
Lifes too slippery for books,
Agent Crawford. Anger appears as
lust, lupus presents as hives. How
does Dr. Chilton present?
Jacks patience is growing thin.
JACK CRAWFORD
I respect Dr. Chiltons opinion.
DR. GIDEON
Would you say Dr. Chilton is beyond
reproach? Before you answer that,
Id like to note, the term
"sociopath" hasnt been used by any
respectable psychiatrist since 1968.
JACK CRAWFORD
Dr. Gideon, do you have information
about the Chesapeake Ripper?
DR. GIDEON
Down to brass tacks.
JACK CRAWFORD
You told Will Graham you were in
Lecters home. Why were you there?
Gideon doesnt so much as glance at Chilton when he answers:
DR. GIDEON
Ive never set foot in Hannibal
Lecters house. I only just met
the man last week. However, Dr.
Chilton was kind enough to share
the details of his dining room.
JACK CRAWFORD
Why would he do that?
DR. CHILTON
Yes, why would I do that?
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 23.
DR. GIDEON
Mr. Graham has been keen to believe
Hannibal Lecter is the Chesapeake
Ripper. Dr. Chilton is doing little
to disavow him of that notion and
encouraged me to do the same.
Dr. Chilton stares, unimpressed. He doesnt let Dr. Gideon
get the best of him. He crosses to Jack nearer the cage.
DR. CHILTON
I apologize, Agent Crawford, for
wasting your time.
DR. GIDEON
Its not your actions or betrayal I
resent, Dr. Chilton, its the lies.
DR. CHILTON
(to Jack)
Ill walk you out.
Dr. Chilton leads Jack across the therapy hall to the stairs.
DR. GIDEON
Dr. Chilton hired a nurse whos had
experience in mental hospitals, but
not as an employee. That nurse
attempted to murder Hannibal Lecter
and you blame Will Graham. Youve
got the right box, Jack, but youre
looking in the wrong corner.
Jack and Chilton continue up the stairs. With some finality,
Dr. Gideon addresses Dr. Chilton before he can exit:
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
Suppose youll have me beaten again
for this, wont you, Frederick?
INT. BSHCI - CELL BLOCK/STAIRWELL - NIGHT
Gideon and TWO GUARDS come into the stairwell. They hold him
with the PRODS attached to his belt. Moving him along the
stairs with unfriendly nudges from the prods.
The balcony to one side.
DR. GIDEON
All your coiled resentment. So bad
for the digestion. Was that poor
Nurse Shell I murdered a good-time
girl with a beer or two inside her?
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 24.
(MORE)
Or a loved sister with a smile for
you all. Maybe it was those eyes...
she had such beautiful eyes.
(then)
It's why I had to take them.
GUARD
Shouldn't've struggled, Dr. Gideon.
CUT TO:
THROUGH THE CAGE WIRING
The shaft of the stairwell extends SEVERAL STORIES above. We
are --
INT. BSHCI - NURSES' STATION/CELL BLOCK - NIGHT
The MALE NURSE sits sipping coffee and filling in paperwork
at the desk. The MONITORS depicting an empty cell block.
EXTREME CLOSE ON THE CAGE WIRING ABOVE
A drop of blood hits the mesh overhead, then DRIPS.
EXTREME CLOSE ON THE CUP OF COFFEE
The DROP OF BLOOD lands with a PLOP in the creamed coffee,
creating a marble of crimson.
ON THE NURSE
Before he can look up, BAM --
A body in a jumpsuit SMASHES, BACK FIRST, into the roof of
the cage, making it shudder and bend...
CLOSE-UP -- BLOOD sprays the PAPERWORK on the desk.
The figure lies SPRAWLED on top of the cage. Beyond it.
Above, the two guards can be seen looking over the balcony.
CAMERA reveals the fallen is Dr. Gideon. Unconscious.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 25.
DR. GIDEON (CONT'D)
ACT FOUR
TOP ANGLE -- CLOSE ON AN ORNATE PLATE
A gloved hand ENTERS FRAME and places a delicate hors d'oeuvre
on porcelain. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal many plates.
Gloved hands move in and out of FRAME, delivering hors
d'oeuvres to their destinations until all the plates fill.
TOP ANGLE -- A LARGE EMPTY TABLE
Covered with a pristine white tablecloth. With the energy of
a Busby Berkeley routine, black-and-white dressed SERVERS
come into FRAME -- moving in choreographed unison -- first
placing candlesticks and flower arrangements -- then, one
after another, they place plates of FOOD, bowls of FRUIT and
platters of MEAT. They flow in and out of FRAME until the
complete BUFFET is finished -- a magnificent spread.
A SERIES OF CLOSE-UPS
A BOW draws across the neck of a CELLO. FINGERS press
STRINGS. The gleaming wood polished to a high sheen.
We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
The STRING QUARTET plays Mozart's "Dissonance" as a party is
in full swing with well-heeled GUESTS.
ON THE DINING ROOM DOORS
Four SERVERS emerge from the dining room, one then the other
coming INTO FOCUS as they pass through FRAME, like dancers in
a chorus line, and head into the room.
TOP ANGLE -- THE SERVERS
The servers spread through the crowd with platters that
guests turn to take food from, creating a swirl of movement
through the room.
NEW ANGLE
CAMERA DESCENDS into the room, amidst the crowd and through
them. As servers move on and two guests turn to chat, they
reveal Jack Crawford, newly arrived.
CAMERA PUSHES IN ON Jack surveying the room.
JACK'S POV -- VARIOUS CLOSE AND EXTREME CLOSE-UPS
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 26.
Hands take morsels of food from the servers' trays and pop
them into their mouths. Teeth bite and gnash. Jack watches
as they chew and swallow -- going SLO-MO as they chew and
then back to NORMAL SPEED for the swallow.
ON JACK
Watching and wondering.
JACK'S POV
He can see Hannibal talking to two guests. Alana is nearby.
She takes an hors d'oeuvre from a passing tray, a morsel of
meat on a pick, and eats it.
ON JACK
Dr. Chilton approaches and saddles up alongside Jack, eyeing
the hors d'oeuvres as they move through the room.
DR. CHILTON
Prosciutto roses. Heart tartare.
Beef roulade. Needless to say, I
won't be eating the food.
JACK CRAWFORD
Dr. Chilton.
DR. CHILTON
Hannibal the Cannibal. That's what
they'll call him, you know.
JACK CRAWFORD
Not according to Abel Gideon.
DR. CHILTON
Gideon's caused me enough trouble
today. The fact that he lied to
you makes me even more certain he
was telling Will Graham the truth.
Chilton eyes the roast pig's head on the buffet table.
JACK CRAWFORD
Why did you come here tonight if
you're so convinced?
DR. CHILTON
Darwinism. I don't want him to
think I suspect anything. Keeping
my mouth shut on the whole affair.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 27.
JACK CRAWFORD
Biting your own tongue so Dr.
Lecter won't be tempted to?
DR. CHILTON
Don't want to be perceived as a
threat, which is why I shouldn't be
standing here, talking to you.
With that, Chilton limps off. Jack turns and approaches
Hannibal and Alana.
ALANA BLOOM
Hi, Jack.
JACK CRAWFORD
Alana.
HANNIBAL
Jack, I'm happy you're here. In many
ways, you are the guest of honor.
You saved my life, after all.
Jack turns back to Hannibal:
JACK CRAWFORD
I'm afraid I can't stay. But I'd
like to take some food to go.
Hannibal smiles. Turns and waves to a server.
HANNIBAL
I'll have one of the staff bring
you something from the kitchen.
Jack waves the server to stop.
JACK CRAWFORD
No. This is good.
(to the server)
Just bring me a container and I'll
help myself. From here.
Hannibal nods to the server who moves off.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONT'D)
Do I have your permission to do
that, Dr. Lecter?
ALANA BLOOM
What are you doing, Jack?
JACK CRAWFORD
Do I have your permission?
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 28.
Jack watches Hannibal. The server returns with a Tupperware
with a lid. Jack takes it in his hands.
HANNIBAL
(to Jack)
Help yourself.
Jack takes a latex glove from his pocket and uses it to place
food into the Tupperware. Hannibal glances across the room
to see Dr. Chilton watching the exchange curiously.
As Jack seals the container, Hannibal smiles sadly.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Eat it soon or it'll spoil.
CLOSE ON THE FOOD CONTAINER
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal we are traveling through --
INT. BAU - CORRIDOR - NIGHT
Jack holds the food container as he greets Brian Zeller and
Jimmy Price who are emerging from evidence processing.
JACK CRAWFORD
Test this.
A DISTINCTIVE NOTE of a harpsichord punctuates the exchange.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
The room has been tidied, but evidence of the party remains.
Alana sits at Hannibal's harpsichord, doubling the KEYS she's
playing until it becomes clear she's performing a slow,
dreamy version of "Chopsticks." Hannibal slides next to her.
She smiles and he watches her for a moment, then starts
playing his composition at the opposite end of the keyboard.
HANNIBAL
The ending to my composition has
been alluding me. You may have
solved my problem with "Chopsticks."
They smile as they play, hands crossing over the keys,
pushing their shoulders together.
ALANA BLOOM
If only all problems could be
solved with a simple waltz.
(then)
Jack's treating you like a suspect.
He's pointing fingers in the dark.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 29.
HANNIBAL
I've walked away from Will, but I'm
still trailing his accusations.
ALANA BLOOM
I've walked away, too. I want to
walk away from all of it.
HANNIBAL
What does walking away leave us?
ALANA BLOOM
Each other.
Hannibal looks at Alana, admiring her, appreciating her.
HANNIBAL
Most stable elements, Alana, appear
in the middle of the periodic
table. Roughly between iron and
silver. Between iron and silver, I
think that is appropriate for you.
Between strength and elegance.
Alana turns to face Hannibal. He feels her gaze and turns to
her, their hands stilled on the keys.
ALANA BLOOM
Aren't you tired of talking? I
think the last thing either of us
needs to do right now is talk.
She leans forward and kisses Hannibal. Gentle. He lets her.
And then he returns the kiss, passionate, alive.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT
CAMERA PUSHES ACROSS SILK SHEETS to find Alana Blooms bare
back. Her pale skin in stark contrast to the crimson
bedding. Lamplight warms her back, casting Hannibal
partially in shadow in front of and beneath her.
CLOSE ON HANNIBALS HANDS -- SLOW MOTION
Move up the length of Alanas back, drawing the red sheets to
her shoulders as he rises up to meet her in a kiss.
ON ALANA -- SLOW MOTION
She stretches out her arms, raising the sheet like wings.
CAMERA ARCS OVER her back until it finds Hannibals back,
silhouetted by the glowing red silk. CAMERA CONTINUES ITS
ARC and dives back into the blood-wine sea of bed silks.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 30.
ON HANNIBALS SHOULDERS -- SLOW MOTION
Sweat drips from the nape of his neck, down his spine.
Alanas arms wrap around his back, crawling up into his hair.
CLOSE ON ALANAS HAIR -- SLOW MOTION
It moves THROUGH FRAME as she throws her head back in
ecstasy, rich auburn wisps rolling like a field of kelp in
the ocean current. As her FACE ENTERS FRAME...
CAMERA PROWLS ALONG THE MATTRESS
Hannibal and Alana intertwined.
CLOSE ON HANNIBAL AND ALANA -- SLOW MOTION
His mouth on her chin, on her lips, on her neck.
POP WIDE -- WUB-V-V-V-V-V
FRAME VIBRATES with the vanguard of an approaching orgasm.
ON HANNIBALS BACK
The heel of Alanas foot slides down the length of his spine.
ON HANNIBALS ARMS
Cradling Alanas head, her neck flexing over the side of the
bed as Hannibal kisses her shoulders and chest.
ON HANNIBALS SHOULDERS
Alanas hands slide up the back of Hannibals neckline,
grabbing a handful of hair and pulling him into a kiss.
POP WIDE -- WUB-V-V-V-V-V-V-V
FRAME VIBRATES as the climax builds.
ON HANNIBAL
He flexes, lengthening the musculature of his body.
ON ALANA
She flexes, her back arching, pushing her against Hannibal.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 31.
POP WIDE -- WUB-V-V-V-V-V-V-V-V-V-V-VAH
FRAME VIBRATES one last time, then settles into stillness as
the light in the room DIMS TO DARKNESS.
CUT TO:
LATER. Hannibal sleeps soundly next to Alana. After a
moment, he opens his eyes. He watches Alana.
He finally stands. He takes Alana's wineglass from the
bedside table. With a white cloth, he wipes the rim, then
sets the glass back down. He snaps his fingers close to her
ears; she doesn't stir.
He looks again at Alana sleeping, then leaves.
INT. HOSPITAL - DR. GIDEON'S ROOM - NIGHT
CLOSE OVERHEAD SHOT ON GIDEON
PULL UP to reveal he lies propped up in a hospital bed,
curtains drawn all around on an oval frame.
His face is bruised. IV drips and monitoring are hooked up
to his body. A THICK BANDAGE around his TORSO.
We HEAR the door to the room open and then slowly close.
Gideon's eyes open as FOOTSTEPS squeak on the floor.
GIDEON'S POV
He sees a tall SHADOW behind the CURTAINS as it approaches.
He watches as the shadow moves toward the foot of the bed.
SLOW and TENSE.
The curtains are drawn back and a tall figure in surgical
scrubs, gloves and a MASK stands before him.
He pulls down his mask to reveal Hannibal Lecter.
HANNIBAL
Hello, Dr. Gideon.
DR. GIDEON
I knew you'd come.
Hannibal smiles at Gideon.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 32.
ACT FIVE
INT. HOSPITAL - DR. GIDEON'S ROOM - DAWN
Early morning light begins to creep through the windows.
CAMERA PUSHES IN ON the curtains surrounding Gideon's bed, a
GHOULISH SILHOUETTE hangs beyond them. A FLASH ignites behind
the curtain, the silhouettes of TWO MEN examining the body.
REVERSE to reveal Jack Crawford as he approaches. He opens
the curtains to find Brian Zeller taking forensic photos of
the body as Jimmy Price dusts for fingerprints.
THE BODY
It seems to be floating on his belly, horizontally suspended
two feet above the bed. His skin is pinched/stretched/pulled
many different directions by WIRE FISHING LEADERS. Each line
ends in a handcrafted HOOK -- the barb pushed through the
skin of the dead man's back, arms and legs.
But that dead man is not Abel Gideon. Instead, it is a
BALTIMORE POLICE OFFICER, his gun belt still around the waist
of his uniform pants. His torso is BARE and opened, the skin
held back in flaps attached by fishhooks. The contents of
his abdomen on the bed below, his badge sits on top.
The finger clip from the MONITORS is attached to his hand.
BRIAN ZELLER
Put a heart monitor on the guard so
no one'd know Gideon was missing,
least for as long as it took the
guard to die, which wasn't long.
JACK CRAWFORD
Long enough.
Jimmy indicates the dead police officer.
JIMMY PRICE
Fishhooks. Hand-tied flies. Like
the ones Will Graham used to make.
This one has human hair. A tooth.
BRIAN ZELLER
There's no way Gideon could have
done any of this with his injuries,
much less get out of bed.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 33.
JACK CRAWFORD
Last time Gideon escaped custody, he
was trying to find the Chesapeake
Ripper. Found him all right. And
tonight, the Ripper found Gideon.
EXT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - EARLY MORNING
Time-lapse establishing.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING
CLOSE ON ALANA asleep in Hannibal's bed. She stirs slightly
and slowly opens her eyes. CAMERA DRIFTS around the bed,
finally revealing Hannibal sleeping quietly next to her.
Alana stares peacefully at the ceiling, the morning after
sleeping with a friend. As she begins to think too much, she
realizes Hannibal has opened his eyes and is watching her.
ALANA BLOOM
You're awake.
HANNIBAL
I didn't want to interrupt whatever
it was you were thinking about.
ALANA BLOOM
Was thinking about funerals. And
how they often make us want sex.
HANNIBAL
It's one in the eye for death.
ALANA BLOOM
Not that we... not that this was...
funeral sex.
HANNIBAL
Of course it was. We both just
buried a friend. We buried Will.
ALANA BLOOM
There's something liberating about
finally letting him go.
HANNIBAL
Yes, there is.
He kisses her, then stops and looks at her reassuringly:
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
We have a lot of reasons to do
this. Not just funeral reasons.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 34.
She kisses him back. BING-BONG. The doorbell rings. BINGBONG. Hannibal rises from the bed, shrugs on a robe.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Last time someone rang my doorbell
this early, it was a census taker.
Hannibal goes to the curtains and draws them -- revealing the
morning sun and allowing it to spill into the room.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
I'll see who it is.
CLOSE ON three loud RAPS on a heavy oak door.
The peephole goes dark, then -- Hannibal opens the door to
find Jack Crawford standing outside.
HANNIBAL
Hello, Jack.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
Hannibal leads Jack into the living room.
HANNIBAL
What can I do for you?
JACK CRAWFORD
Gideon took a fall down a stairwell
last night. Was hospitalized.
Security guard standing watch was
killed in what looks to be another
Chesapeake Ripper murder. Now
Gideon is nowhere to be found.
HANNIBAL
He escaped?
JACK CRAWFORD
We know he didn't walk out of the
hospital. His back was broken.
Someone took him. Someone he knew.
(then)
Where were you last night?
HANNIBAL
Here.
JACK CRAWFORD
All night?
HANNIBAL
Yes.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 35.
JACK CRAWFORD
Anyone besides you can verify that?
Hannibal's quiet a moment. Then, from behind Jack:
ALANA BLOOM (O.S.)
I can.
Jack turns. He flashes surprise, but tamps it quickly.
ALANA BLOOM (CONTD)
I was here with Hannibal all night,
Jack. What are you accusing him of?
Hannibal reads Jack's frustration and perhaps relief.
JACK CRAWFORD
I'm not accusing him of anything.
Only asking his whereabouts.
HANNIBAL
That's not all you were asking.
Jack looks evenly at them, nods, forced to accept that
Hannibal isn't the Chesapeake Ripper...
EXTREME CLOSE-UP: Graphics of black and purple bars.
Gel electrophoresis -- DNA results.
BRIAN ZELLER (O.S.)
Geese, pigs, cows.
We're --
INT. BAU - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY
Brian Zeller stands in front of a monitor. Jimmy Price and
Jack Crawford look on.
JIMMY PRICE
Not cows. Wagyu beef. I'd say, a
hundred dollars worth right there.
BRIAN ZELLER
Sure it wasn't Kobe?
JIMMY PRICE
All Kobe is Wagyu, but not all
Wagyu is Kobe. Least we know Dr.
Lecter wasn't serving up people.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 36.
BRIAN ZELLER
Want people? The Chesapeake Ripper
was tying flies with them. Just
like Will Graham allegedly did.
INT. BAU - MORGUE - MOMENTS LATER
CAMERA finds Brian Zeller, Jimmy Price and Jack standing over
a row of FISHING LURES taken from the security guard's back.
BRIAN ZELLER
Hair woven into the monofilament is
Beverly's. Bone fragments from
Miriam Lass. Veining from Sheldon
Isley. Optic nerves and arteries
from Judge Davies. A toenail from
James Gray, our Muralist.
A SERIES OF EXTREME CLOSE-UPS: A fly hook. Cleverly crafted,
with bits of dark, organic material woven into the
monofilament. A bone fragment. Veining coiled around hook
and feather. An optic nerve entwined with bark.
BRIAN ZELLER (CONTD)
All Chesapeake Ripper victims.
Jimmy Price indicates four lures, in partial stages of
deconstruction, in individual grids.
JIMMY PRICE
These four lures here are almost
identical to the ones we found at
Will's house, made with materials
from the exact same human remains.
(points to trays)
Abigail Hobbs, Marissa Schuur,
Donald Sutcliffe, Georgia Madchen.
JACK CRAWFORD
Will didn't kill any of them.
There was no Copycat. It was
always the Ripper. He's finally
taking credit for those murders.
BRIAN ZELLER
May be taking too much credit. We
found something else in the lures.
With tweezers, Jimmy plucks a curled, wispy wood shaving from
one of the deconstructed fly grids.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 37.
JIMMY PRICE
Madrona bark. It's a tree almost
nonexistent on the East Coast. But
this bark was peeled recently.
ON A PLASMA SCREEN: Zeller gestures to the map of the area.
BRIAN ZELLER
There's a small stand of madrona in
Virginia.
JACK CRAWFORD
Inside your diatom search area.
Zeller zooms in with his hand,  la an iPad.
BRIAN ZELLER
Here.
As we PUSH IN ON A HOUSE on an isolated plot of land --
CUT TO:
A SERIES OF QUICK, ELEGANT, STYLIZED SHOTS:
CLOSE ON A THIN, FLEXIBLE BONING KNIFE
It cuts THIGH MEAT off the bone in one rectangular piece.
CLOSE ON DRIED ROSEMARY
Crushed and dropped into a bowl of SALT and PEPPER and
scattered on a wood board. This mixture is SCATTERED on a
board, and the RECTANGULAR PIECE OF THIGH MEAT is rolled
across it, coating the meat with seasoning.
CLOSE ON DRIED FRUIT
It forms a channel of stuffing down the center of the
rectangle of thigh meat, which wraps around it in a cylinder.
CLOSE ON THE CYLINDER OF THIGH MEAT
Being wrapped with BACON.
CLOSE ON A WIRE GARROTE
It slices through a BLOCK of RED CLAY, cutting it into pats,
which are rolled into thin SHEETS, like pastries.
CLOSE ON THE RED CLAY SHEETS
Wrapped around the cylinder of thigh meat wrapped in bacon,
the edges pinched to seal in the moisture and flavor.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 38.
INSIDE THE OVEN
The CLAY-SHELLED THIGH MEAT cooks.
CLOSE ON THE CLAY SHELL
CAMERA reveals Hannibal's reflection in the OVEN DOOR.
CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
A chair at the end of the table is CENTER FRAME. On either
side is a metal IV stand with a bag of fluid hanging from it.
The left one holds a CLEAR FLUID, the right one BLOOD.
CAMERA moves around to reveal Hannibal coming into the room,
carrying the ROAST LEG JOINT wrapped in a clay shell. And a
plate of canoe-cut marrow bone. He places them on the table
in front of his guest -- Dr. Gideon.
Gideon has an IV in one forearm and another one inserted at
his CLAVICLE. A thick bandage is wrapped around his chest.
He is conscious, alert, but very unwell.
Hannibal stands to Gideon's right. The table before him
immaculately decorated with two place settings.
HANNIBAL
Rti de cuisse. Clay-roasted thigh
and canoe-cut marrow bone.
Hannibal uses a WOODEN MALLET to crack open the clay shell,
revealing the moist, pink meat underneath.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
I love cooking with clay. Creates
a more-succulent dish and adds a
little theatricality to dinner.
Using a pair of tongs, Hannibal removes the pieces of clay
away from the roast and lifts it onto a platter as he speaks:
DR. GIDEON
Prometheus fashioned man out of
clay and gave him fire.
HANNIBAL
We come from clay, return to clay.
DR. GIDEON
Ashes to ashes, and all the rest.
HANNIBAL
Shall I carve?
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 39.
DR. GIDEON
You already did.
As Hannibal begins to cut the meat, CAMERA reveals below the
table that Gideon's LEFT LEG is amputated high up the thigh.
HANNIBAL
Your legs are no good to you
anymore. You've got a T-4 fracture
of the vertebra, this is a far more
practical use for those limbs.
DR. GIDEON
Hard to have anything, isn't it,
Dr. Lecter? Rare to get it. Hard
to keep it. A damn slippery life.
HANNIBAL
We can only learn so much and live.
Irony is, life is full of lessons.
DR. GIDEON
So is death, apparently.
Hannibal cuts delicate slices of the pink meat.
HANNIBAL
You were determined to know the
Chesapeake Ripper, Dr. Gideon. To
wear that skin before you die. Now
is your opportunity.
Hannibal lays slices of meat on Gideon's plate, then his own.
DR. GIDEON
Intend me to be my own last meal?
HANNIBAL
Yes.
DR. GIDEON
How does one politely refuse a dish
in these circumstances?
HANNIBAL
One doesn't.
Hannibal puts food into his mouth and savors it. Gideon
looks down at the plate featuring his own meat.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
The tragedy is not to die, Abel,
but to be wasted.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 40.
DR. GIDEON
Three words. CreutzfeldtJakob
disease.
Gideon looks at Hannibal, cuts a forkful of the meat. And he
puts his own meat in his mouth and chews.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
My compliments to the chef.
And BRING UP THE HARPSICHORD MUSIC --
CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
Hannibal plays the harpsichord, alone now. Recapitulating
the musical theme that's threaded its way through the entire
episode. As the final rondo builds...
INT. BSHCI - WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - NIGHT
Will Graham does sit-ups in his cell.
EXT. VIRGINIA BARN - NIGHT
Moonlight on crisp white snow. The hulking black shadow of a
heavily-built wooden barn stands stark against the white.
CRANE DOWN and around, as we hear the low rumble of a car
engine, to find a black sedan pulling up on the opposite side
of the barn.
JACK CRAWFORD
Exits the car. Takes in the barn; the two heavy gate doors
barred on the outside. Jack pulls out his gun and a Maglite
and walks toward it, his feet crunching on the snow. His
breath frosts the air.
Jack walks up the wooden ramp to the heavy doors.
CUT TO:
INT. VIRGINIA BARN - NIGHT
Blackness, except for slivers of faint moonlight shining
through the wooden beams. We hear the sound of the heavy bar
being thrown.
And then the door opens and a piercing FLASHLIGHT BEAM hits us.
Jack Crawford silhouetted behind it as he enters the barn slowly.
He plays the flashlight around the space, cautious. Tense.
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 41.
Cobwebs and old wood. Heavy old machinery and hand tools.
Dust in the air. A SKITTERING SOUND and Jack swings the
light and gun -- catching a RAT scurrying for cover...
Jack moves on. Something shines in the beam and Jack moves
toward it. A new steel padlock on an old door. Incongruous.
CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
Hannibal plays the final movement of the sonata...
BLACKNESS
A rending sound of wood and metal.
A door opens to reveal a flight of wooden stairs, looking up
at Jack Crawford. We are --
INT. VIRGINIA BARN - CISTERN ROOM - NIGHT
He throws down the iron bar he used to force the lock.
Shines his light right at us as he starts down the stairs --
Jack moves down the wooden stairs, gun and flashlight before
him. CAMERA recedes before him to reveal a dark, low cellar
space, the concrete floor dominated by the tops of two
circular WATER CISTERNS.
Jack scans the room, his flashlight beam our only light source,
casting harsh shadows and movements. He checks the room for
danger -- light reflecting off dirt-smeared windows in the far
wall; blackness reflecting back from the other side.
MOVEMENT
Jack stills as he hears it. Heart thumping. A scraping sound.
BELOW HIM...
He moves to the cisterns, the old stone topped with much
newer METAL LIDS.
He pulls the first one off -- flashes the light into it --
dark water rises a third of the way up the steep slick sides.
SCRITCH --
The sound again.
Jack moves to the other cistern. Can definitely hear
something inside...
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 42.
He throws off the metal lid. Swings his gun and flashlight
into the cistern.
ON JACK CRAWFORD -- STUNNED
JACK'S POV -- standing in the empty cistern is a dirtsmeared, scared WOMAN. BLINKING up into his flashlight beam.
She shields her eyes with her right hand. Her left arm is
missing. Jack's world crashes down around him; he can barely
utter the name of his former FBI trainee...
JACK CRAWFORD
Miriam?
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #206 "Futamono" FINAL DRAFT 12/31/13 43.
Yakimono
Written by
Steve Lightfoot
and
Bryan Fuller
Directed by
Michael Rymer
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #207 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2014 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot
Executive Producer: Chris Brancato
Consulting Producer: Jesse Alexander 
HANNIBAL
"Yakimono"
TEASER
FADE UP FROM BLACK TO --
A wash of red and blue light over tire prints in snow. A
pair of heavy boots crosses them, obliterating the prints.
We are --
EXT. VIRGINIA BARN - NIGHT
A nascent crime scene. Work lights and flashing neons. COPS'
and FBI AGENTS' breath frosting the cold air. An AMBULANCE is
exiting. It drives toward us, revolving lights FILL FRAME.
CAMERA finds JACK CRAWFORD standing alone, haunted, watching
the ambulance drive away.
CLOSE ON MIRIAM LASS
She is --
INT. BAU - EXAMINATION ROOM - NIGHT
She stands on a white sheet, wearing a paper gown, stoic, as
TECHNICIANS move around her, combing and tweezing for
evidence. Fibers, hairs, saliva, etc. (Essentially doing a
SAFE kit protocol: Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence.)
CLOSE-UPS -- scissors snip a HAIR SAMPLE. Miriam stares
forward. Opens her mouth as a SWAB is taken.
Over this, we HEAR a phone recording:
MIRIAM LASS (V.O.)
Jack, Jack... Jack, it's Miriam. I
don't know where I am. I can't see
anything... I was so wrong...
CUT TO:
INT. BAU - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - NIGHT
Jack sits in darkness. Listens to the old recorded message...
MIRIAM LASS (V.O.)
...I was so wrong. Please, Jack.
I don't want to die like this...
ON JACK and his guilt -- he replays the recording:
MIRIAM LASS (V.O.) (CONTD)
Jack, it's Miriam...
INT. BAU - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - NIGHT
Miriam is still being processed --
DIRT is scraped from beneath the nails of her right hand.
Her BLOOD slowly fills a test tube. Each time the evidence
is put into bags, onto slides and labeled.
MIRIAM LASS (V.O.)
...I was so wrong...
CUT TO:
INT. FBI - MIRIAM LASS'S DORM - BATHROOM - NIGHT
CAMERA PUSHES IN ON Miriam's one-armed silhouette, ghost-like
against the opaque shower curtain. She stands under the jet,
washing away the dirt and grime of her captivity.
MIRIAM LASS (V.O.)
...I don't want to die like this...
CUT TO:
MIRIAM LASS
We are --
INT. FBI - MIRIAM LASS'S DORM - NIGHT
Abrupt silence. Miriam sits, staring into middle distance.
CAMERA slides around Miriam, CLOSE, in and out of FOCUS. We
hear the slow THUD of her HEARTBEAT. The AMBIENT HUM of her
CIRCULATORY SYSTEM.
CAMERA finds her left arm resting on her knee, the round,
smooth oddness of the stump where her left arm should be...
And, finally, her eyes, lashes in FOCUS as we see TEARS
slowly bud and build on them. As CAMERA PUSHES IN, barely
audible CHAMBER MUSIC grows until it becomes piercing.
Abrupt silence, then:
MIRIAM LASS
(barely audible)
Thank you.
Finally, Miriam looks and CAMERA reveals Jack with her.
There is belief and gratitude. Her voice raspy and low:
MIRIAM LASS (CONTD)
I knew you'd never stop looking...
ON JACK -- guilt washes over him because he knows different.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 2.
MIRIAM LASS (CONTD)
Can I see him?
JACK CRAWFORD
Who?
MIRIAM LASS
The Ripper.
JACK CRAWFORD
We haven't caught the Ripper.
Her stomach plunges, helpless, frustrated, scared.
MIRIAM LASS
He's still--?
JACK CRAWFORD
We need your help, Miriam. You
know who he is.
MIRIAM LASS
I don't. Know who he is.
JACK CRAWFORD
You found him.
MIRIAM LASS
I don't remember finding him. He
got inside my head.
JACK CRAWFORD
Do you remember being taken?
MIRIAM LASS
I remember a dream about drowning.
Then being awake. And not awake.
Being myself, and not myself. I
remember I could smell salt air. We
were by the sea. For weeks. Months.
Longer. Days and evenings blurred,
I'd wake up to the smell of fresh
flowers and the sting of a needle.
(then)
I wasn't afraid. Fear and pain
were so far away, on the horizon,
but not close. Never close.
JACK CRAWFORD
I was reckless with your life.
MIRIAM LASS
I was reckless with my life.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 3.
JACK CRAWFORD
I saw what I needed in you and I
used you. I let you break the
rules on my behalf while I hid
behind deniability.
MIRIAM LASS
Please, Agent Crawford. Don't
apologize to me for my mistakes.
(then)
He treated me very well until the
end. Until he put me in the ground.
Even when he took my arm. He told
me what he was going to do. I went
to sleep. I woke up, it was gone.
Said he was giving it to you.
JACK CRAWFORD
Did he tell you why?
MIRIAM LASS
He said he wanted to give you hope.
JACK CRAWFORD
Can you identify him?
MIRIAM LASS
I could hear his voice. I couldn't
see his face. All I could see...
FLASH CUT TO:
A DISTORTED MAN SILHOUETTED BY A HYPNOTIC, STROBING LIGHT.
A single BRIGHT OBJECT in the distorted man's hand catches
the light in twinkling pulses.
BACK TO:
MIRIAM AND JACK
MIRIAM LASS
...was light.
JACK CRAWFORD
Why didn't he kill you, Miriam?
Why were you spared?
MIRIAM LASS
I wasn't spared. He was just
saving me for last.
CUT TO:
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 4.
INT. BAU - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY
ALANA BLOOM is with HANNIBAL in the small room with the TWOWAY MIRROR. As CAMERA PUSHES IN...
ALANA BLOOM
They found a witness. A survivor.
The only victim of the Chesapeake
Ripper who lived to tell.
HANNIBAL
Is this witness watching me now?
ALANA BLOOM
Yes.
HANNIBAL
It seems I am the usual suspect.
ALANA BLOOM
I keep having angry, imaginary
conversations with Jack Crawford
about that. I wish I could tell
you why this is happening.
Hannibal looks to the glass.
HANNIBAL
I don't think even Jack can tell me
why. His witness must not be able
to identify the Ripper by sight.
Hannibal stands and approaches the glass.
HANNIBAL (CONT'D)
Jack wants them to hear my voice.
Otherwise, I'd be in here alone.
(back to Alana)
Still, I appreciate your company.
TRAVEL THROUGH THE MIRROR
To reveal Jack and Miriam watching Hannibal and Alana on the
other side of the glass.
ALANA BLOOM
There's new evidence in Will's
case. Evidence he didn't commit
the crimes he was accused of.
ON HANNIBAL AND ALANA
ALANA BLOOM
Will's innocent, Hannibal.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 5.
HANNIBAL
He's not innocent of trying to kill
me. And he's not innocent of what
is happening here.
ALANA BLOOM
He thinks you're the Ripper.
ON JACK AND MIRIAM BEHIND THE GLASS
Hannibal approaches the glass and we MOVE IN ON HIM.
HANNIBAL
He's no longer alone in that.
PUSH IN ON MIRIAM as Hannibal approaches. Her heart THUDS in
her chest. Her CIRCULATORY SYSTEM rises, the distant,
haunting CHAMBER MUSIC heard earlier grows in volume...
MIRIAM'S POV
Hannibal gets closer. Tense. Her breath held. Hannibal now
stands square to the glass directly in front of Miriam. She
looks at him intently. As if they could touch.
MATCH CUT TO:
A DISTORTED MAN SILHOUETTED BY A HYPNOTIC, STROBING LIGHT.
BACK TO:
Jack watches Miriam closely.
She slowly drags her eyes from Hannibal. Looks at Jack.
Shakes her head.
MIRIAM LASS
It's not him.
JACK CRAWFORD
Are you sure?
MIRIAM LASS
Yes. He's not the Ripper.
ON JACK -- staring at Hannibal through the glass, Hannibal
looking back as if he could actually see Jack.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 6.
ACT ONE
ON DR. FREDERICK CHILTON
He limps down a staircase. We are --
INT. BSHCI - STAIRWELL - DAY
As Dr. Chilton approaches the gate, he raps his silverhandled cane on the bars and the gate BUZZES and swings open.
INT. BSHCI - CELL BLOCK/WILL GRAHAM'S CELL - DAY
Dr. Chilton limps toward Will's cell.
DR. CHILTON'S POV
As he approaches the last cell on the left, CAMERA reveals
WILL standing in the middle of his cage. He's no longer
wearing his prison jumpsuit; he's wearing civilian clothes.
WILL GRAHAM
This is very sudden.
DR. CHILTON
The federal prosecutor has dropped
all charges. Since you weren't
convicted of killing anyone, the
basis for your sentencing to this
institution is null and void. The
Chesapeake Ripper has set you free.
WILL GRAHAM
You're my psychiatrist, you could
have kept me here if you wanted.
DR. CHILTON
I'd love nothing more than to see
you trade places with Dr. Lecter.
WILL GRAHAM
Now that's a prize patient.
Dr. Chilton waves his cane at the CCTV CAMERA. A moment,
then Will Graham's cell door OPENS. Will steps out.
DR. CHILTON
You may have been exonerated, but
Hannibal Lecter has yet to be
incriminated. Which means, there's
a cannibal on the loose. I have no
intention of ending up on his menu.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 7.
WILL GRAHAM
Then confess, Frederick. Might be
the only thing saves your life.
They start down the hall.
DR. CHILTON
Confess to what?
WILL GRAHAM
Confess to bonding with Hannibal
Lecter over your mutual practice of
unorthodox therapies. Dr. Lecter
with me. You with Abel Gideon.
DR. CHILTON
Abel Gideon has been playing his
own game. Was wheeled out of that
hospital by the Chesapeake Ripper.
Curious what bargain they struck.
WILL GRAHAM
There's no bargaining with smoke.
Gideon's dead. You're next.
DR. CHILTON
Unless I unburden myself?
WILL GRAHAM
Confession's good for the soul.
Shine a light on your relationship
with Hannibal Lecter. He works in
the shadows. Deny them to him.
Tell Jack Crawford everything.
DR. CHILTON
So if Hannibal kills me, he'll look
more suspicious? Or are you simply
suggesting I kill my career before
Hannibal can kill me?
WILL GRAHAM
I'm suggesting you convince Jack
Crawford however you can. Like
your life depends on it.
The gate BUZZES, OPENS. As Will steps through, Chilton asks:
DR. CHILTON
Why didn't Hannibal just kill you?
WILL GRAHAM
Because he wants to be my friend.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 8.
INT. BSHCI - THERAPY HALL - DAY
Will comes through the doors under the guards' pulpit and
into the main hall. Sunlight shines through the windows,
creating shafts of light and shadow. Will walks toward
freedom, pausing to look at the brutal THERAPY CAGES where he
spent so much time. Walking down the hall, through the pools
of light, he realizes Jack Crawford is waiting for him,
standing near the base of the stairs. Will stops short.
JACK CRAWFORD
You need a ride?
WILL GRAHAM
I was going to call a cab.
JACK CRAWFORD
We found Miriam Lass. Alive.
WILL GRAHAM
You catch the Ripper?
Jack shakes his head "no."
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
How is she? Miriam.
JACK CRAWFORD
Traumatized.
WILL GRAHAM
Don't beat yourself up too badly.
JACK CRAWFORD
You beat yourself up about Beverly?
Will's hesitation is a yes, but he deflects.
WILL GRAHAM
Beverly's dead. Miriam's still
alive. Trauma victims recover,
Jack. Disaster has a way of
putting life in perspective.
JACK CRAWFORD
Miriam thanked me. When we found
her. For not giving up on her.
(then)
I did give up on her. I gave up on
you, too. I thought she was dead
and I thought you were crazy. I
stopped trying to find both of you.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 9.
WILL GRAHAM
You didn't have to find me, Jack.
You just had to listen to me.
JACK CRAWFORD
I put Miriam in a room with
Hannibal Lecter. She stated
definitively that he is not the
Chesapeake Ripper.
WILL GRAHAM
Was that definitive enough for you?
JACK CRAWFORD
No. It wasn't.
Will considers that, then:
WILL GRAHAM
Where did you find Miriam, Jack?
EXT. VIRGINIA BARN - DAY
Full crime scene. Jack's sedan pulls into the center of it.
Jack and Will exit the car, Will holding a thick evidence
file in his hands. Jack nods at a couple of FBI AGENTS
guarding the entrance, who stop and stare at Will Graham's
arrival. Jack leads Will toward the open barn doors.
JACK CRAWFORD
Property was foreclosed years ago.
Appears as though the Ripper's been
using it about as long.
Will regards the dark, ominous building and then follows him.
INT. VIRGINIA BARN - DAY
Will walks through the large barn doors, taking in the scene.
CAMERA PULLS BACK over the ROWS OF POTTED TREES, wrapped in
gauze, with weeping branches that cascade down to the floor,
under GROW LIGHTS mounted to the beams of the barn's rafters.
Jack walks down the stairs, into the cistern room, indicating
for Will to follow behind him.
JACK CRAWFORD
Will.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 10.
INT. VIRGINIA BARN - CISTERN ROOM - DAY
The basement is lit by work lights creating eerie shadows
across a large, coffin-sized FREEZER. A RACK OF LARGE GLASS
SLIDES, like the ones that encased Beverly Katz, lines a wall
near the BUZZ SAW that sliced her into vertical slabs.
For a BRIEF MOMENT, Will sees BEVERLY'S REFLECTION in a pane
of glass. He averts eyes inadvertently toward a kill room.
Linoleum is rolled out on the wooden floor to give a
cleanable surface. Centered on it is an AUTOPSY TABLE,
stainless steel picking up highlights, a drain running around
the sides -- a pipe running into a vat beneath. A roll of
KNIVES and SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS upon it. Will eyes several
heavy GLASS JARS filled with BLOOD resting on another table.
JACK CRAWFORD
It's Beverly Katz's blood. He
drained her before he froze her.
Before he cut into her.
Bunches of DYING FLOWERS, VINES and BRANCHES are on the
autopsy table, coiled in a withering mass.
Will looks at the file as Jack walks him through the space,
toward a pair of raised CISTERN OPENINGS.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
The Chesapeake Ripper's most-recent
victim drowned in this cistern.
The water in his lungs led us here.
Jack looks into one of the two cisterns, black water halfway
up its walls. Above each cistern, a BLOCK AND TACKLE hangs
from a hook in the ceiling. Jack moves to the dry cistern.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
We found Miriam down there.
ANGLE from the cistern bottom, looking up at Jack and Will.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
She believes the Ripper brought her
here to kill her. He was saving
her to be his last victim. He
knows we're close to catching him.
WILL GRAHAM
He's been caught before. Catch a
fish once and it gets away, it's a
lot harder to catch a second time.
Jack watches Will as he surveys the room.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 11.
ON WILL GRAHAM
Will Graham takes a breath, exhales, then closes his eyes.
A PENDULUM
It swings in the darkness of Will Grahams mind, keeping
rhythm with his heartbeat. FWUM. FWUM.
ON WILL GRAHAM
His eyes are closed. The PENDULUM is now outside his head.
It swings behind Will, Jack Crawford recedes into the
shadows. FWUM. The PENDULUM swings on the other side of the
room, disappearing evidence markers and work lights. FWUM.
The dying flowers, vines and branches on the table REJUVENATE
and BLOOM ANEW, restored to a fresh state of life.
The crime scene has now been decriminalized in Will's head.
Will opens his eyes to DARKNESS. As LIGHT BEGINS TO
ILLUMINATE the space, CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal we are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE (WILL'S POV)
CAMERA reveals the TREE MAN in full bloom, in front of Will,
rooted to the floor of Hannibal's office. Tree Man's
branches grow, reaching out of him and stretching to the
ceiling. Will takes it all in.
WILL GRAHAM
I sewed the seeds and watched them
grow. I cultivated a long chain of
events leading to this. This, all
of this, has been my design.
A dramatic THEATER CURTAIN closes on the proscenium arch of
Hannibal's office. CAMERA reveals Will is now...
INT. VIRGINIA BARN - CISTERN ROOM - DAY
Will glances down at the cistern.
WILL'S POV -- CISTERN
Miriam Lass at the bottom, looking up at Will.
WILL GRAHAM
It's theater.
Will unceremoniously closes the cistern lid.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 12.
ON WILL GRAHAM -- OMNISCIENT POV
CAMERA reveals Jack standing behind him.
JACK CRAWFORD
Every time the Chesapeake Ripper
kills, it's theater.
WILL GRAHAM
The Chesapeake Ripper didn't bring
Miriam here to kill her. He
brought her here for you to find.
JACK CRAWFORD
The Ripper isn't self-destructive.
He doesn't want to get caught.
WILL GRAHAM
He wants you to catch someone.
Like he wanted you to catch me.
Somewhere, in all this evidence,
you'll find something that will
lead you away from Hannibal Lecter.
JACK CRAWFORD
Miriam Lass already has.
WILL GRAHAM
Two years is a long time to have
Hannibal in your head. You can't
trust her, Jack. You can't trust
any of this to be what it seems.
OFF Jack Crawford considering that warning...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 13.
ACT TWO
EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY
The house sits nestled amidst bare trees and snow. Silence.
Reveal this is WILL'S POV as he walks up to the porch,
enjoying the crunch of fresh snow underfoot.
The door OPENS revealing Alana inside. She barely has time
to greet Will before THE DOGS squeeze past her.
Will rushes to meet them as they bound up to him, and he is
engulfed in their unbridled joy. He drops to his knees in the
snow as he pets them. Alana cannot help a smile.
ALANA BLOOM
Welcome home.
WILL GRAHAM
Thank you. Thank you for taking
care of them. They seem happy.
ALANA BLOOM
Happy to see you.
Will is momentarily overwhelmed with the dogs swarming around
him, each wanting to greet and lick. He notices a NEW DOG.
WILL GRAHAM
Who's this?
ALANA BLOOM
Applesauce. She's mine. She likes
applesauce. I rescued her.
Alana attaches a lead to Applesauce's collar.
WILL GRAHAM
Picking up some of my bad habits?
ALANA BLOOM
Picking up your good habits.
(then)
You challenged my whole framework
of assumptions about the way you
are. The way I think you are.
WILL GRAHAM
The way you think I am isn't always
a reliable guide to who I am.
ALANA BLOOM
I was wrong about you.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 14.
WILL GRAHAM
Because you didn't believe me? Or
in me? Because you let me question
my own sanity, my sense of reality?
ALANA BLOOM
Because you tried to kill Hannibal.
WILL GRAHAM
You think I tried to kill Hannibal.
Just like I think Hannibal killed
Beverly Katz. And so many others.
ALANA BLOOM
You're wrong about him.
WILL GRAHAM
You're wrong about him, Alana. You
see the best in him. I don't. I'm
not being pessimistic. I'm just a
realist depressed by the truth.
ALANA BLOOM
What was done to you doesn't excuse
what you did. Are you going to try
to hurt Hannibal again? Is he safe?
WILL GRAHAM
From me? Or for you?
Will reads her in an instant before she can answer. He's
saddened by what he sees in her face, but covers.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
I'm going to stay as far away from
Hannibal Lecter as I can. I
suggest you do the same.
Alana looks at the dogs vying for Will's attention.
WILL GRAHAM (CONT'D)
(to the dogs)
Come on.
He leads the dogs into his house, leaving Alana in the cold.
INT. BAU - JACK CRAWFORD'S OFFICE - DAY
Jack sits down opposite Dr. Chilton.
JACK CRAWFORD
What can I do for you, doctor?
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 15.
DR. CHILTON
It's what I can do for you. I'm
offering my services on the Ripper
case -- pro bono, of course.
JACK CRAWFORD
You'd like to be helpful expediting
Hannibal Lecter's arrest?
DR. CHILTON
I've consulted with the FBI on
previous Ripper murders.
JACK CRAWFORD
You have an agenda with this
investigation, Dr. Chilton.
DR. CHILTON
Yes, I have an agenda. Living. I
should be assigned an FBI escort.
Everyone who believed Will Graham
about Hannibal Lecter is dead.
JACK CRAWFORD
Except you.
DR. CHILTON
Except me. I'd like to remain not
dead for the foreseeable future.
JACK CRAWFORD
Do you have something substantial
to contribute or just an opinion?
DR. CHILTON
I have a witness. If Will is not a
suspect, then he is a witness.
JACK CRAWFORD
To his own manipulation?
DR. CHILTON
We've had remarkable success
recovering memories. He remembers
so much of what was done to him.
JACK CRAWFORD
Why hasn't Will told me about this?
DR. CHILTON
Because you told him his memories
were meaningless.
Jack stares, feeling the blow.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 16.
DR. CHILTON (CONTD)
I imagine Hannibal Lecter used the
same coercive techniques on Miriam
Lass that he used on Will Graham.
He buried memories in both of them.
(then)
I dug those memories out of Will, I
can dig them out of Miriam.
JACK CRAWFORD
Miriam Lass is not your patient.
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON MIRIAM LASS
Looking down. Intent. She uses her right arm to throw her
hair across her shoulder.
We are --
INT. FBI - MIRIAM LASS'S DORM - DAY
Miriam wears a sports bra. She throws a strap across her
shoulder. Tightening the leather.
CLOSE ON MIRIAM'S STUMP as a plastic cup is slid snug against
it, fastened in place. Shots are CLOSE, TIGHT FOCUS, DREAMY.
ON MIRIAM, now with two arms, taking in the new prosthetic
limb. Miriam slowly lifts the new arm... the metal
Terminator-esque fingers move.
CLOSE -- Miriam slides a LIFELIKE SKIN GLOVE over the metal
prosthetic, making the arm suddenly seem incredibly lifelike.
Miriam lifts both hands in front of her, regards them. Takes
her real hand and scratches the back of the fake one.
MATCH CUT TO:
INT. FBI - MIRIAM LASS'S DORM - DAY
Miriam's hands as she scratches her prosthesis.
MIRIAM LASS
Are you an FBI agent?
CAMERA reveals Will Graham is in the room with Miriam.
WILL GRAHAM
No. I used to teach at the
academy.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 17.
(MORE)
Two days ago, I was an inmate at
the Baltimore State Hospital for
the Criminally Insane. Courtesy of
the Chesapeake Ripper.
MIRIAM LASS
The Guru told me the only person
who demonstrated any practical
understanding of the Ripper is you.
Didn't mention you were a victim.
WILL GRAHAM
The Guru?
MIRIAM LASS
Jack Crawford. We called him the
Guru. He has a peculiar cleverness.
WILL GRAHAM
The Guru tells me you don't
remember much about what the
Chesapeake Ripper did to you. I
couldn't remember either.
MIRIAM LASS
Couldn't?
WILL GRAHAM
I remember now. Not all of it.
Pieces. I was under his influence.
The Chesapeake Ripper used some
kind of light to induce seizure
responses in my brain. He created
blackouts and lost time.
Miriam quietly breathes, struggling with the familiarity of
what Will is telling her. Her voice is just above a whisper.
In the safety of the FBI, it's still terrifying to recall.
MIRIAM LASS
I remember the light. He always
stood in front of it, at a distance
from me, silhouetted, very still.
The CHAMBER MUSIC, heard earlier, begins to fill her mind.
MIRIAM LASS (CONTD)
Like we were in the garden of the
hurricane's eye. He would play
chamber music. I still hear it.
Will reacts, hearing the familiar haunting SOLO CELLO that
plagued his own nightmares rising in his ears.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 18.
WILL GRAHAM (CONT'D)
MIRIAM LASS (CONTD)
Then his voice, low and even, would
pull me to him. Like a current.
CUT TO:
A MAN SILHOUETTED BY A HYPNOTIC, STROBING LIGHT.
HANNIBAL'S VOICE, JACK CRAWFORD'S VOICE and a third AS-YETUNIDENTIFIED MALE VOICE all speak in eerie chorus:
VOICES
You're waking now. Waking, calm.
Waking in a pleasant room. Safe.
BACK TO:
MIRIAM AND WILL
MIRIAM LASS
I knew there were conversations. I
would sometimes hear myself and
wonder who was speaking with such
intimate knowledge of my thoughts.
He knows everything about me.
She catches Will clocking her scratching her prosthetic hand
and becomes suddenly self-conscious.
MIRIAM LASS (CONTD)
It itches. Like the arm is still
there. At least I have something
to scratch now. But how do I
scratch the itch in my head?
WILL GRAHAM
We can help you remember, Miriam.
You and I are part of his design.
The Ripper wanted you free. He
wanted me free, too.
MIRIAM LASS
Neither of us is really free. He's
not done. He told me he was going
to kill me last and that's exactly
what he intends to do.
WILL GRAHAM
You're safe now.
MIRIAM LASS
I won't be safe until he's dead.
OFF Will Graham --
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 19.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT
Hannibal comes into the dark room. Moves toward the
refrigerator. Stops. Lifts his nose to the air.
HANNIBAL
The same unfortunate aftershave.
Too long in the bottle.
Hannibal opens the refrigerator door and the light
illuminates a gun pointed at his head, Will Graham behind it.
WILL GRAHAM
Our last kitchen conversation was
interrupted by Jack Crawford. I'd
like to pick up where we left off.
If memory serves, you were asking
me if it'd feel good to kill you.
HANNIBAL
You've given that some thought.
WILL GRAHAM
You wanted me to embrace my nature,
doctor. Just following the urges I
kept down for so long, cultivating
them as the inspirations they are.
HANNIBAL
You never answered my question.
How would killing me make you feel?
WILL GRAHAM
Righteous.
HANNIBAL
Aren't you curious, Will? Why you?
Why Miriam Lass? What does the
Chesapeake Ripper want with you?
WILL GRAHAM
You tell me. How did Miriam Lass
find you? You made sure no one
could find you that way again.
Hannibal looks past the gun barrel, into Will's eyes.
HANNIBAL
If I'm not the Ripper, you murder
an innocent man. You better than
anyone know what it is to be
wrongly accused. You were
innocent, Will, and no one saw it.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 20.
WILL GRAHAM
I'm not innocent. You saw to that.
HANNIBAL
If I am the Ripper and you kill me,
who will answer your questions?
(beat)
Don't you want to know how it ends?
Will doesn't respond, he just slowly steps backward into the
shadows, disappearing into darkness.
STAY ON HANNIBAL watching the space where Will stood.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 21.
ACT THREE
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY (B&W)
Hannibal opens the door revealing Miriam Lass two years ago.
(NOTE: This is a reuse of "Entre," Scene 40.)
MIRIAM LASS
My name is Miriam Lass. I'm with
the FBI. I would show you my
credentials, but I'm actually just
a trainee.
HANNIBAL
Never just a trainee. An agent in
training.
As the B&W shifts to color...
Telling us it is now PRESENT DAY --
CAMERA reveals Miriam Lass, haunted yet professional. Jack
Crawford standing behind her.
HANNIBAL
Please come in.
He steps to one side and Miriam steps into the office before
him. Hannibal looks at Jack and then follows.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY
Miriam looks at Jack, who nods at her, and she moves around
the room. Hannibal's very aware of this, sensing an agenda.
HANNIBAL
I would have been happy to come to
your office, Jack.
JACK CRAWFORD
I wanted to do this here.
HANNIBAL
I'm sure you have your reasons.
ON MIRIAM
She crosses to the table with Hannibal's drawings.
In a conscious repeat of Ep. #106, "Entre," Hannibal steps
behind Miriam as she leafs through his drawings.
ON HANNIBAL as he looms over her shoulder.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 22.
MIRIAM LASS
These are beautiful. Yours?
Miriam picks up a PORTRAIT DRAWING and studies it.
HANNIBAL
(nods)
I enjoy portraiture. A subject's
mental processes betrayed only by
the expression on their face.
JACK CRAWFORD
Miriam, I thought Dr. Lecter could
be helpful during your recovery.
HANNIBAL
The most-important aspect of a
successful recovery is recognizing
that life will never be the same.
MIRIAM LASS
Then I'm well on my way to a
successful recovery.
JACK CRAWFORD
The Chesapeake Ripper sent me a
message from you. It was recorded
shortly after you were taken.
MIRIAM LASS
It's me? My voice?
JACK CRAWFORD
Yes. I debated whether I should
play it for you. Still debating.
MIRIAM LASS
I want to hear it.
ON JACK'S SMART PHONE
He presses "play."
ON MIRIAM
CAMERA PUSHES IN as she listens to her terrified voice. Jack
watches Hannibal watching her, steely.
MIRIAM LASS (V.O.) (CONTD)
Jack... Jack, it's Miriam. I don't
know where I am. I can't see
anything. I was so wrong. Please,
Jack. I don't wanna die like this.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 23.
Tears well in Miriam's eyes as the message cuts out. She
remains quiet for a long moment, reeling, finally:
MIRIAM LASS (CONTD)
I don't remember it.
Miriam's hand absently scratches against her prosthetic.
HANNIBAL
Would you like to try?
CUT TO BLACK.
OVER BLACK
We HEAR the ambient noise of Miriam's breathing, heartbeat
and circulatory system.
EERIE CHORUS OF VOICES
You're waking now. Waking, calm.
Waking in a pleasant room. Safe.
The CHORUS OF VOICES unifies into a single voice:
HANNIBAL
Open your eyes.
A PULSING LIGHT --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY
The drapes are drawn and the room is dark. Miriam now sits
opposite Hannibal. A METRONOME and LIGHT pulsing between
them. Jack stands behind Hannibal, in the shadows.
We hear a phone line RINGING, waiting for the line to pick up.
CLOSE ON MIRIAM LASS
She holds a phone to her cheek, the light of the keypad the
only source of illumination. The PHONE CONTINUES TO RING
until an automated answer:
JACK CRAWFORD (V.O.)
Jack Crawford.
Then a BEEP tells us to leave a message. CAMERA PULLS BACK
to reveal we are --
INT. VIRGINIA BARN - CISTERN (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA SLOWLY DESCENDS on Miriam Lass (NOTE: as she appeared
in the final scene of "Entre"). She feels the walls in the
darkness, the illuminated keypad the only source of light.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 24.
MIRIAM LASS
Jack... Jack, it's Miriam.
HANNIBAL (V.O.)
Tell me where you are.
MIRIAM LASS
I don't know where I am.
HANNIBAL (V.O.)
What do you see?
MIRIAM LASS
I can't see anything.
BACK TO:
HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE
Jack watches Miriam, over Hannibal, from the shadows. Hating
this. Miriam's hand absently scratches her prosthesis.
MIRIAM LASS
I was so wrong. Please, Jack. I
don't want to die like this.
HANNIBAL
Miriam, what was the last thing you
remember before making that call,
before waking in the darkness?
She looks past the strobing METRONOME to Jack in the shadows.
MIRIAM'S POV -- JACK
The shadows seem to recede around him even as the blackness
deepens. Jack looks at Miriam, and then, as she watches --
his TORSO suddenly SPROUTS WOUNDS AND IMPLEMENTS, they burst
backward from his body and he becomes a standing WOUND MAN.
ON MIRIAM
She averts her eyes from Jack Crawford as Wound Man, glancing
down to see she's holding the WOUND MAN DRAWING -- the last
thing she saw before Hannibal choked her unconscious.
MIRIAM LASS
The Wound Man.
OFF Jack Crawford --
CLOSE ON A FLOWER PETAL
It's under a MAGNIFYING LENS, dusted to reveal a smudged,
partial fingerprint. We are --
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 25.
INT. BAU - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY
ZELLER and PRICE are presenting to Jack and Alana.
JIMMY PRICE
We found a fingerprint on a flower
petal. A partial, smudged. Not
enough points for a courtroom, but
it triggered a match.
(then)
Hannibal Lecter.
Alana looks shocked. Jack's world takes another turn.
BRIAN ZELLER
After all these murders, the
Ripper's gonna leave a print now?
JACK CRAWFORD
Will said whatever evidence we
found would lead us away from the
Chesapeake Ripper.
BRIAN ZELLER
We also found sodium amytal and
scopolamine in Miriam's blood.
ALANA BLOOM
Dr. Chilton used scopolamine and
sodium amytal on both Gideon and
Will during their therapy. One
claimed to be the Chesapeake
Ripper, the other accused Hannibal.
JACK CRAWFORD
"You've got the right box, just
looking in the wrong corner."
Gideon pointed me right at him,
told me Chilton was the Ripper.
JIMMY PRICE
Wait. I'm confused. Who are we
saying is the Chesapeake Ripper?
Dr. Lecter or Dr. Chilton?
JACK CRAWFORD
Bring them both in.
CUT TO:
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 26.
INT. DR. CHILTON'S HOUSE - ENTRY HALL - DAY
Chilton lets himself in through the front door and throws his
keys onto a dresser. Walks into the house. He throws his
coat over a chair back and then stops. Listens.
A faint, regular BEEPING can be heard. Slow and rhythmic.
Chilton moves toward it, like SONAR PINGING. It gets louder
at the foot of the stairs and he starts to ascend. Following
the beeps like a beacon, drawing him closer.
INT. DR. CHILTON'S HOUSE - UPSTAIRS LANDING - DAY
Chilton comes up the stairs, onto the landing.
The beeps are getting louder. A steady pulse. Confused and
tense, Chilton moves down the hall.
The slow beep plays a double rhythm with his own fasterbeating heart. The beeps get louder...
BEEP, BEEP... Getting slower...
BEEP.... BEEP. Slower still. Winding down.
INT. DR. CHILTON'S HOUSE - GUEST BEDROOM - DAY
The slow beep becomes a SOLID TONE as Dr. Chilton pushes open
the door and steps inside and --
STOPS DEAD.
ABEL GIDEON -- now missing all four limbs -- lies on a bed.
An IV drip under one clavicle, wounds neatly bandaged.
The TONE rises up, becoming louder and louder in Chilton's
head. Overpowering his now-THUNDERING HEARTBEAT.
Despite himself, Chilton moves forward, fascination and dread
combined. All Gideon's limbs have been neatly removed. He
stares, lifeless, at the ceiling. DEAD.
Chilton stares until finally he breaks the spell. Knows he
is in trouble. Turns and runs for the stairs -- the TONE
receding behind him.
INT. DR. CHILTON'S HOUSE - ENTRY HALL - DAY
Dr. Chilton comes hard and fast down the stairs, panicked.
And falls headlong over a PACKED SUITCASE at the foot of the
stairs. It wasn't there before. Chilton is sprawled, looks
up as a pair of well-shined shoes appears before him.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 27.
HANNIBAL LECTER
Now stands in front of him. In his plastic kill suit.
Chilton scrambles to his feet. Backs away.
HANNIBAL
Hello, Frederick.
DR. CHILTON
Oh my god.
Hannibal regards him calmly. There is a SUDDEN INSISTENT RAP
at the door. TWO SHADOWY FIGURES seen through the glass.
HANNIBAL
That will be the FBI.
Chilton goes to shout for help, but as he opens his mouth,
Hannibal covers it with a chloroform pad.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
When you wake up, your only choice
will be to run.
Chilton struggles against Hannibal's grip, but Hannibal is
too strong and Chilton is weakening by the second.
CHILTON'S POV -- the world goes fuzzy, in and out of FOCUS as
unconsciousness takes him. Hannibal's face slides in and
out. Chilton slowly falls to the ground. We can hear his
slow breathing. We watch as Hannibal's feet move away.
The KNOCKING comes again.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
One moment, please...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 28.
ACT FOUR
CLOSE ON THE KITCHEN TIMER
As it starts to BUZZ. A hand clicks it off to silence.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY
Hannibal moves from the timer to the oven and opens the door.
Pulls out the tray onto the worktop. The roast looks
fabulous, steaming and juicy and brown. He savors the aroma.
Smiles to himself, pleased with it.
HANNIBAL
Are you absolutely sure I can't
interest you in a bite?
CAMERA reveals Brian Zeller and Jimmy Price standing on the
other side of the counter.
BRIAN ZELLER
We need to get going, Dr. Lecter.
HANNIBAL
Will we be long?
(re: the roast)
Only asking if I should refrigerate
or cover and cool on the counter?
JIMMY PRICE
Put it in the fridge.
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON DR. CHILTON
His eyes are closed. He stirs. Groans. Licks his lips.
Rubs his face with a hand and it leaves a thick smear of
blood down his cheek... Slowly, his eyes open. Groggy. He
comes to, looks down at himself.
We are --
INT. DR. CHILTON'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM/KITCHEN - DAY
Dr. Chilton sits in an armchair. His clothes are covered in
blood. One hand holds a bloody chef's knife. There is a
bloodied FBI-issue automatic handgun in his lap. He takes
this in. Can't remember. Disbelieving.
His own bloody footprints track across the floor from the
kitchen --
Where two DEAD FBI AGENTS have been displayed.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 29.
The first sits on the kitchen worktop, a curved gash in his
abdomen. His intestines are looped around and tied into a
large, ostentatious bow.
The second is lying on the floor, kitchen knives and
implements sticking from his bare torso -- a conscious
reconstruction of the Jeremy Olmsted/Wound Man killing.
Chilton drops the knife. He stands and the gun thumps to the
floor. He staggers closer to the bodies. A hand to his
thumping head, leaving another blood smear. Up close, the
tableau is even more horrific.
Dazed, he picks up the gun and grabs a couple of suitcases.
CUT TO:
INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY
Will Graham sits with a case file, reading, the dogs at his
feet. The pack of dogs all jumps up as one, BARKING and
agitated. Will Graham moves to the window.
EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY
Dr. Chilton, his coat thrown over his bloody clothes, pulls
his RED SPORTS CAR up before the house. The stolen gun lies
on the passenger seat and he puts it in a pocket before
getting out of the car. He grabs his suitcases out of the
trunk and starts walking for the house.
Chilton approaches, the front door opens and the dogs stream,
BARKING, onto the porch and down at him. He stops dead,
frightened. Looks up at Will Graham as he comes closer.
DR. CHILTON
May I use your shower, please?
GIDEON'S HEAD AND TORSO
Lying on a STRETCHER. We are --
INT. DR. CHILTON'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY
Reveal this to be JACK CRAWFORD'S POV. Jack, standing near
the dead FBI agents, stares at Gideon's body being wheeled
through the house. Jimmy Price is with him.
JIMMY PRICE
Gideon hasn't been dead long, no
more than a couple of hours.
Chilton's been cutting steaks off
of him for days.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 30.
Brian Zeller emerges from the library, holding an OLD MEDICAL
TEXT. He approaches Jack, who stands over the Wound Man
corpse. Zeller indicates the library he just came from.
BRIAN ZELLER
Chilton's shelves are filled with
old medical books.
Zeller opens a book revealing an illustration of Wound Man.
JACK CRAWFORD
Wound Man.
BRIAN ZELLER
This illustration's in a lot of
early surgical texts. It's the
Ripper's sixth victim.
JACK CRAWFORD
Chilton was consulting on the
Ripper case when Miriam
disappeared. She must've talked to
him, made the connection. Beverly
made a connection, too.
Jack stares at the illustration, cold getting colder.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
Chilton's been part of the Ripper
investigation since before Will
Graham, before Hannibal Lecter,
before Miriam Lass. He had access
to case files, he knew everything
the Ripper needed to know.
CUT TO:
INT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY
Will watches as Chilton paces, freshly showered, clothes
changed, hyped, brain working overtime:
DR. CHILTON
I have the same profile as Hannibal
Lecter. Same medical and psychology
background. We are both doctors of
note in our fields. Of course it
would be me. Hannibal was never
going to kill me. I'm his patsy.
(then)
I have to leave the country. I'm
leaving the country.
WILL GRAHAM
If you run, you look guilty.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 31.
DR. CHILTON
You didn't run and you looked
plenty guilty. Abel Gideon was
half-eaten in my guest room. I
have corpses on my property, you
just threw up an ear.
WILL GRAHAM
There's an APB on you right now.
They've canceled your credit cards,
they're tracing your phone.
DR. CHILTON
I have cash and I tossed my phone.
(then)
Jack Crawford thinks I killed two
agents -- three agents. You know
what tends to happen to people who
do that? Shoot on sight.
WILL GRAHAM
I'm going to prove that Hannibal
Lecter is the Chesapeake Ripper.
DR. CHILTON
I know you will. And when you do,
I will read about it from a secure
location and reintroduce myself to
society at that time.
Chilton's head whips round as the low rumble of a car
approaching sets the dogs to BARKING again. He whips out the
gun from his pocket and points it at a suddenly-wary Will.
DR. CHILTON (CONTD)
What did you do?
WILL GRAHAM
I called Jack Crawford.
Chilton shakes his head.
DR. CHILTON
No, no, no...
He backs to the window, gun still on Will. Looks out.
CHILTON'S POV -- Jack Crawford is getting out of his car and
walking toward the house. Will moves toward the front door.
DR. CHILTON (CONTD)
No. Stay there.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 32.
WILL GRAHAM
(keeps walking)
You're not a killer, Frederick.
ON CHILTON -- behind the gun -- and he knows he won't fire.
EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - DAY
Will walks onto the porch to meet Jack Crawford. Comes down
the steps. Jack's face is murderous.
WILL GRAHAM
Why did you come alone, Jack?
JACK CRAWFORD
Where is he?
WILL GRAHAM
Why did you come alone?
JACK CRAWFORD
Is he in the house?
WILL GRAHAM
I told you everything isn't what it
seems. The Chesapeake Ripper is
still playing with us. All of us.
JACK CRAWFORD
I'm not playing.
WILL GRAHAM
You going to kill Chilton? Jack up
the law and get underneath it?
JACK CRAWFORD
You wagging the same tongue that
gave the order to kill Hannibal?
WILL GRAHAM
Difference is, Chilton's not the
Chesapeake Ripper. Hannibal is.
JACK CRAWFORD
The Chesapeake Ripper isn't playing
all of us, Will. He's playing you.
Jack goes to enter. Will steps in his way.
WILL GRAHAM
Jack. Wait. Let me bring him out.
(off Jack's head shake)
He's got a gun.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 33.
Jack holds Will's gaze. Pulls out his own gun.
JACK CRAWFORD
Good.
He pushes past Will and walks up the steps, onto the porch.
He steps in fast, gun first. Ready to fire.
ON JACK -- HIS POV
The back door swinging open...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 34.
ACT FIVE
EXT. WILL GRAHAM'S HOUSE - WOODS - DAY
The bare skeletal trees black against the crisp white snow.
CLOSE SHOTS -- as totally-inappropriate shoes crunch through
the snow, the owner tripping and stumbling --
DR. CHILTON
As he stumbles through the woods -- away from Will's house.
ANGLE ON JACK CRAWFORD -- plowing through the snow after him.
Gun at the ready. Bloodlust high in him.
Dr. Chilton stumbles, falls, dropping the gun he carries. He
grabs it up and fights to his feet, gasping, terrified...
JACK CRAWFORD --
JACK CRAWFORD
CHILTON?!!!
A raw yell -- it echoes through the woods.
Chilton hears it around him, as if surrounded, and redoubles
his efforts. He crosses a FROZEN STREAM, the ice cracking
under his feet, the water below sucking off his shoes. He
clambers up the other side...
JACK CRAWFORD
His progress faster, more determined. Following the
footprints ahead of him. Breaking into a run. Jack sees the
limping silhouette of Chilton ahead of him.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
Chilton!
He raises his gun and fires. THUNK! The bullet scatters
splinters from a tree as Chilton passes it.
KA-CHOO, KA-CHOO, KA-CHOO -- the receding echoes of the shot
ring around the woods.
Dr. Chilton moves into a snow-filled clearing amidst the
trees. Staggers across it.
JACK CRAWFORD (O.S.) (CONTD)
Stop right where you are.
ON CHILTON -- he halts. His face in CLOSE FOCUS as, behind
him, we see Jack's silhouette move into the clearing.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 35.
Chilton turns to face his hunter. Jack has his gun at arm's
length, sighting down the barrel.
CLOSE ON Jack's finger on the trigger.
As Jack approaches, Chilton drops to his knees in the snow.
He holds out his arms like a penitent.
CLOSE -- SLO-MO -- as the gun falls from Chilton's fingers
and nestles in the snow.
ON JACK CRAWFORD -- as he moves toward Chilton, finger aching
on the trigger. His nemesis finally before him.
Jack stops ten feet from Chilton who gasps, exhausted. Head
down. His arms slowly FALL TO HIS SIDES.
ON JACK, finger tightening on the trigger, conflicted.
Chilton looks up at him. Scared. Exhausted and empty.
CHILTON'S POV -- CLOSE ON the bore of Jack's gun, FOCUS
creeping up the gun to Jack's hateful expression.
CLOSE ON DR. CHILTON
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal he is --
INT. BAU - EVIDENCE PROCESSING - DAY
Dr. Chilton's face is now clean of blood. He looks
exhausted, standing on a white sheet as he hands his clothes
to Jimmy Price. Brian Zeller writes down the inventory...
JIMMY PRICE
...one two-piece suit in charcoal
gray, one white shirt, fifteen-inch
collar, one billfold containing
cash, credit cards and driver's
license. One set of car keys...
Chilton stares forward.
DR. CHILTON
I need to speak with Will Graham.
BRIAN ZELLER
I don't care what you need.
Their hatred is palpable. ON CHILTON -- his predicament
landing hard.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 36.
JIMMY PRICE
One Montblanc fountain pen in
silver and black...
CUT TO:
INT. BAU - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY
Dr. Chilton now sits opposite Alana Bloom. He is cuffed to
the table and wears an ORANGE JUMPSUIT.
DR. CHILTON
Does it have to be you? It seems
like a final indignity.
ALANA BLOOM
Not like you to hide an achievement.
DR. CHILTON
The achievement isn't mine.
ALANA BLOOM
Whose is it? Hannibal Lecter's?
DR. CHILTON
Those are just words coming out of
your mouth. No weight to them. No
consideration they may be true.
ALANA BLOOM
They're not true.
(then)
You were using coercive therapies,
influencing Abel Gideon and Will
Graham to point the Ripper
investigation in false directions.
DR. CHILTON
You can't see it. And you won't
see it until it's too late. Don't
say I didn't warn you, Dr. Bloom.
CAMERA moves between them, traveling to the TWO-WAY MIRROR
they are reflected in.
JACK AND MIRIAM
Stand in the viewing room. Watching this interview. She
stares at Chilton. Her prosthetic arm is folded across her
chest. She scratches it furiously with the other hand.
DR. CHILTON
In fact, I believe those should be
my last words on the subject of the
Ripper until my lawyer arrives.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 37.
MIRIAM'S POV -- THROUGH GLASS -- SLOWER MOTION
Chilton is speaking MOS to Alana as he turns his head toward
her. Out of sync with his lips, we hear:
DR. CHILTON (V.O.) (CONTD)
You're waking now. Waking, calm.
MATCH CUT TO:
A DISTORTED MAN SILHOUETTED BY A HYPNOTIC, STROBING LIGHT.
The distortion adjusts revealing FREDERICK CHILTON
silhouetted in the STROBING LIGHT, holding his cane.
DR. CHILTON
Waking in a pleasant room. Safe.
BACK TO:
MIRIAM AND JACK
Miriam is shaking. Jack watches her. CAMERA moves in as she
unravels. The shaking is involuntary, some giant feeling
trying to escape. Tears fall down her cheeks.
MIRIAM LASS
It's him. It's him. It's him.
Jack moves to her, her distress is all the answer he needs,
and he grabs her in a bear hug. Pulling her to him, her eyes
away from the glass. A moan escapes her as she cries into
Jack's shoulder. She rocks against him and then pushes away.
He releases her.
Realizes too late that she now holds his gun.
Miriam lifts the gun and aims. Fires through the glass.
ANGLE -- SLO-MO -- on the glass as the BULLET comes through
it, the glass spiderwebbing around the hole. Through the
hole, we PUSH IN on Miriam behind the gun barrel.
REVERSE -- NORMAL MOTION
As the bullet hits Chilton in the face, his head snaps back
and he goes over backward in a spray of blood. Alana diving
for cover.
ON ALANA -- on the floor, looking at Chilton who lies half-up,
half-down, his body held up awkwardly by the shackles on his
wrists. Blood ripping from his ravaged face to the floor.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 38.
ALANA'S POV -- CAMERA moves slowly toward the bullet hole in
the glass until the circle fills the frame like an iris --
Miriam and Jack framed within it.
CUT TO:
CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYS
AN ORNATE CLOCK shows 7:30. MOVE ACROSS IT to find an
appointment book. A beautifully-handwritten entry at 7:30-
8:30 -- "Will Graham." We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT
Hannibal Lecter sits in one of the two armchairs. A glass of
red wine in hand. Enjoying the music.
A KNOCK at the door disturbs his reverie. He places his
glass down and goes to the door.
Opens it to find Will Graham. Will has cut his hair --
shorter, neater. Everything about him seems focused.
HANNIBAL
Hello, Will.
WILL GRAHAM
May I come in?
HANNIBAL
Do you intend to point a gun at me?
WILL GRAHAM
Not tonight.
He lets Will into the room.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
Are you expecting someone?
HANNIBAL
Only you.
WILL GRAHAM
Kept my standing appointment open.
HANNIBAL
And you're right on time.
WILL GRAHAM
I have to deal with you. And my
feelings about you. I think it's
best if I do that directly.
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 39.
HANNIBAL
First you have to grieve for what
is lost and what has changed.
WILL GRAHAM
I've changed. You changed me.
HANNIBAL
The friendship that we had is over.
The Chesapeake Ripper is over.
WILL GRAHAM
It had to be Miriam, didn't it?
She was compelled to take his life
so she could take her own back.
HANNIBAL
How will you take your life back?
WILL GRAHAM
I'd like to resume my therapy.
Hannibal stares as Will sits in his familiar chair. After a
long moment, Hannibal follows suit and sits opposite him.
CUT TO A PROFILE SHOT of the two of them silhouetted in their
chairs, regarding each other.
HANNIBAL
Where shall we begin?
As the corners of Will's mouth threat to curl...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #207 "Yakimono" FINAL DRAFT 01/03/14 40.
Su-zakana
Written by
Scott Nimerfro
and
Bryan Fuller
&
Steve Lightfoot
Directed by
Vincenzo Natali
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #208 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2014 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot
Executive Producer: Chris Brancato
Consulting Producer: Jesse Alexander 
HANNIBAL
"Su-zakana"
TEASER
EXT. RIVERBANK - DAY
Hazy winter light shines through skeletal tree branches and
glints off snow. Highlights reflect off the water of a river
in the distance.
CRANE DOWN to find JACK CRAWFORD and WILL GRAHAM on the ice
of the frozen waterway. Ice fishing.
Will is unhooking a TROUT he has just caught. He deftly
unhooks it as Jack looks on. A BUCKET OF ICE lies on the ice
next to Will, filled with live trout.
Jack breathes frosty air and claps his gloved hands together.
Out of his element.
JACK CRAWFORD
I get it. The great outdoors. I
get the attraction. In the summer.
WILL GRAHAM
Trout are harder to catch when the
water is really cold.
JACK CRAWFORD
That's another argument for summer.
(then)
Thought trout were hunters. They
should be chewing on my hook.
WILL GRAHAM
In the cold, their metabolisms
drop. They're not as hungry.
JACK CRAWFORD
That's the question. How do you
catch a fish who isn't hungry?
WILL GRAHAM
You have to change tactics. Use
live bait that moves and excites
them to action. Gotta make him
bite even though he's not hungry.
JACK CRAWFORD
Make him act on instinct. He's
always a predator.
WILL GRAHAM
You have to create a reality where
only you and the fish exist, where
your lure becomes what he wants
most, despite everything he knows.
JACK CRAWFORD
Wrong move and he swims away.
Will looks at Jack.
WILL GRAHAM
I'm a good fisherman, Jack.
Will picks up his fishing gear, hands Jack some stuff to
carry and they start heading for home.
JACK CRAWFORD
You hook him, I'll land him.
CUT TO:
VEGETABLES
A KNIFE BLADE whisks through them, creating medallions that
are scooped up and placed in a COURT BOUILLON.
A CONTAINER OF WATER WITH FISH
A trout is plucked from the water.
THE TROUT
From under the head, without opening the belly of the trout,
the insides are removed by the Gilles cavity. It is
immediately splashed with vinegar.
COURT BOUILLON WITH VEGETABLES
The trout is placed in the near-boiling pan and its skin
immediately turns BLUE.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT
LOW ANGLE -- HANNIBAL LECTER engrossed in his work.
CUT TO:
THE FINISHED DISHES
THREE BLUE-SKINNED TROUT are presented with their tails
flipped under and pulled through their mouths, as if the
trout has swallowed its own tail.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 2.
The dishes are picked up and we GO WITH THEM -- as Hannibal
places them on the dining room table.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Will Graham and Jack Crawford sit opposite one another as the
fish is placed between them. Hannibal pours wine.
HANNIBAL
Truite saumone au bleau with
vegetables and broth, served with
hollandaise sauce on the side.
(then)
Beautiful fish, Will.
WILL GRAHAM
It was my turn to provide the meat.
HANNIBAL
More flavorful and firm than farmed
specimens. I find the trout to be
a very Nietzsche-ian fish. Trials
of his wild existence find their
way into the flavor of the flesh.
Hannibal serves food onto each of their plates. Then:
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
I hope "providing the meat" doesn't
mean you still harbor doubts about
what I serve at my table.
As Hannibal sits. Will doesn't answer; Jack answers for him.
JACK CRAWFORD
No doubts, Dr. Lecter. Only the
wounds we dealt each other before
we got to the truth.
HANNIBAL
Which is why we need to move past
apologies and forgiveness. Chilton
has many victims besides the dead.
Jack looks at Will, nods at this.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
We will absorb this experience and
it will change us. We are all
Nietzsche-ian fish in that regard.
WILL GRAHAM
Makes us tastier.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 3.
Hannibal considers Will.
JACK CRAWFORD
None of our actions were personal.
WILL GRAHAM
I tried to have Hannibal killed.
Isn't that personal?
HANNIBAL
You thought I was a killer.
JACK CRAWFORD
I don't blame Miriam Lass for
shooting Frederick Chilton. I
wanted to kill him myself.
Jack looks from Hannibal to Will. Unwilling to commit.
HANNIBAL
Greatest crime now would be to walk
away from what we've shared and
suffered. In many ways, we need
each other. We're the only ones
who will know what this feels like.
WILL GRAHAM
(eats)
This fish is delicious.
He holds Hannibal's gaze.
CUT TO:
EXT. HORSE STABLE - DAY
A traditional barn-like building surrounded by a paddock with
HORSES that stamp and snort, their breath misting the cold.
INT. HORSE STABLE - DAY
A STABLE HAND is leading a VETERINARIAN with his bag into the
stable.
STABLE HAND
I came in this morning and found
all the horses with hoods on. She
was lying dead in her stall.
In a stable, a DEAD HORSE lies on its side, stomach extended.
VETERINARIAN
She had a foal two days ago?
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 4.
STABLE HAND
It was born dead. She hasn't eaten
since, pining I guess.
The veterinarian bends to examine the dead horse.
VETERINARIAN
Feels like she's still pregnant.
Did they check for twins?
The stable hand shrugs, doesn't know. The veterinarian looks
unimpressed with the medical work.
VETERINARIAN (CONTD)
Who performed this C-section?
STABLE HAND
She didn't have a C-section.
The veterinarian looks confused. Leans back so the stable hand
can see a rough line of stitches across the horse's belly.
STABLE HAND (CONTD)
Those weren't there yesterday.
For a moment, confusion clouds the veterinarian's face.
Then he makes a decision. Reaching into his medical bag, he
finds a SCALPEL and cuts the stitches loose.
He reaches through the thick wall of muscle with a gloved arm
and then pulls the innards free.
As the horse's insides pour out onto the floor, entangled in
the guts and organs is the NUDE BODY OF A YOUNG WOMAN.
CLOSE ON the veterinarian as he falls back in horror at his
discovery and --
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 5.
ACT ONE
CLOSE ON THE DEAD HORSE'S EYE
The FISHEYE REFLECTION across the dulled black surface as
Hannibal kneels into FRAME. We are --
INT. HORSE STABLE - NIGHT
Hannibal studies the dead horse's face, running a hand across
its neck, almost unconsciously. Jack standing over him.
HANNIBAL
I agree with the pagans. The horse
is divine. All beasts of burden
are sacred animals.
JACK CRAWFORD
This kind of mutilation often
presents as cult activity.
BRIAN ZELLER unpacks his kit next to the WOMB WOMAN, now
lying on a sheet of plastic. JIMMY PRICE stands over the
horse, photographs the sutures and incision. He cranes his
camera, trying to get a good angle in the abdominal cavity.
JIMMY PRICE
When an animal's sacrificed, it's
presumed the power of the beast
will be psychically transported to
whoever's offering up the goods.
HANNIBAL
Which is why sacrificial animals
should be healthy, without any
defects. This horse was dying.
BRIAN ZELLER
Its womb was more or less intact.
ON THE WOMB WOMAN
An ULTRAVIOLET LIGHT suddenly shines down on her revealing a
constellation of SMALL BRUISES on her throat. WIDEN to
reveal Brian Zeller holding a PORTABLE ULTRAVIOLET LAMP.
BRIAN ZELLER (CONTD)
Victim was deceased before she was
enwombed. Ecchymosis of the
subcutaneous tissue is consistent--
JIMMY PRICE
She was strangled.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 6.
Zeller tucks the lamp away, grabs a flashlight and peels back
an eyelid to find the whites of the eye are BLOOD RED.
BRIAN ZELLER
She was scrappy. Put up a fight.
CAMERA finds Jack and Hannibal watching and listening nearby.
HANNIBAL
The horse is a chrysalis, a cocoon
meant to hold the young woman until
her death can be transformed.
JACK CRAWFORD
Transformed into what?
HANNIBAL
Life. A new life. This is a
birth. Or it was intended to be.
This is every bit as much about
giving life as it is taking it.
JACK CRAWFORD
What's the thinking?
Hannibal studies the macabre madness laid out before him.
HANNIBAL
Conflicted. I see what he's done.
I don't understand why he's done
it. This killer doesn't think like
anyone else, Jack. You'll need
someone who doesn't think like
anyone else to catch him.
OFF Jack realizing exactly who Hannibal is referring to --
CUT TO:
LONG BROWN HAIR -- SLOW MOTION
Strands of hair whip THROUGH FRAME like undulating kelp.
NAKED BACK -- SLOW MOTION
SWEAT forms and flows from its pores. It arches and plunges,
twisting in sheets, entwined with another naked form.
OVERHEAD ON ALANA BLOOM
OUT OF FOCUS becoming IN FOCUS as she climaxes. We are --
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 7.
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT
Alana is flushed, the sheet tucked under her arms. A glass of
cold white wine, sheened with condensation, is handed to her.
She sits up, the sheet still around her, and we reveal
Hannibal has passed her the glass. Shirtless beside her.
ALANA BLOOM
It's one way to change the subject.
(off his look)
I'm not complaining, but part of me
suspects we ended up here to avoid
where our conversation was going.
HANNIBAL
As long as you're not complaining.
ALANA BLOOM
What are you doing, Hannibal?
HANNIBAL
Recovering.
ALANA BLOOM
Too much has happened for us not to
talk about this. However pleasant
the distractions.
HANNIBAL
I am recovering. From all that has
happened. So is Will. So are you.
(moving closer)
I would change many things, but not
that they brought us here. Or that
they brought Will back to therapy.
He leans back and she rolls to him, leans against his chest,
looking him in the eye. Sips her wine.
ALANA BLOOM
The only thing stranger than finding
a woman inside a horse is seeing you
back in therapy with Will Graham.
HANNIBAL
Is it really so strange?
ALANA BLOOM
He tried to murder you.
HANNIBAL
Circumstances have changed for
Will. They've changed for me.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 8.
(MORE)
The revelation of Frederick
Chilton's guilt has shifted
perspective.
ALANA BLOOM
I'm not convinced Will thinks
Frederick Chilton was guilty.
HANNIBAL
Why would he lie?
ALANA BLOOM
He's suppressing the truth about
what he's feeling and substituting
it with something else.
HANNIBAL
Do you know why Will tried to kill
me? Wasn't to avenge Beverly Katz's
death. It was to prevent yours. He
was protecting you. The only way he
felt he had left to him.
That lands. Alana absorbs it. Knows it to be true.
ALANA BLOOM
I'm afraid Will opened a door in
himself and no one knows if it
closed again. Especially not Will.
HANNIBAL
Then it's healthy he's back in
therapy with a good psychiatrist.
He sips his wine and raises his glass, looks through the pale
green liquid, face distorting --
MATCH CUT TO:
AN AQUARIUM
EXOTIC FISH swim through the tank as CAMERA PULLS BACK until --
FWUMP, a young woman's face slams into FRAME.
Meet MARGOT VERGER. A striking beauty in her twenties.
A KNEE presses into her neck. HER ARM is wrenched behind
her. Her face tenses, bracing against pain, tears welling.
MASON VERGER (O.S.)
You should have taken the
chocolate, Margot.
The stoic tears finally spill out past her eyelashes.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 9.
HANNIBAL (CONT'D)
CLOSE ON TEARS
The tears flowing down her cheeks are stopped by a tiny 3/4
SQUARE OF GAUZE. The gauze swells like a sponge with tears.
CLOSE ON A MARTINI
Chilled, inviting. PLIP. The tear-filled gauze drops into
the glass, followed by olives impaled on a cocktail stick.
As the martini is lifted OUT OF FRAME by a masculine hand
sporting a distinctive family ring, we go...
CLOSE ON MARGOT VERGER
Her neck is still bruised. She stands next to a window,
watching the snowfall.
HANNIBAL (O.S.)
You are no more at fault for what
happened to you than if you had
been bitten by a mad dog.
She turns and CAMERA reveals we are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTERS OFFICE - DAY
Hannibal sits in his chair, observing Margot by the window.
MARGOT VERGER
Mad dogs are put down.
HANNIBAL
That what you hoped to accomplish
when you attacked your brother?
MARGOT VERGER
Apparently, I went about putting
him down the wrong way. Hes
still alive. Should have waited
until my arm was healed.
HANNIBAL
Doing bad things to bad people
makes us feel good. Did you feel
good trying to kill your brother?
MARGOT VERGER
Trying wasnt terribly satisfying.
Margot blinks. Hannibal watches.
HANNIBAL
Whats your relationship with your
brother now? Has it changed?
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 10.
MARGOT VERGER
I think he thinks Ive calmed down.
HANNIBAL
Have you?
MARGOT VERGER
Oh, Im calm.
HANNIBAL
Are you going to try again?
Margot stares, studying Hannibal.
MARGOT VERGER
This is where therapy gets tricky.
HANNIBAL
It doesn't have to be tricky.
MARGOT VERGER
I could confess to a murder and you
cant say a word. I couldve
killed someone this morning and you
cant say a word. But if Im
planning to commit a murder...
HANNIBAL
I am ethically obligated to take
action to prevent that murder. Be
that as it may, if theres no one
else to protect you, Margot, you
have to protect yourself.
(then)
It would actually have been more
therapeutic if you had killed him.
OFF Margot considering Hannibal's loyalties --
A BODY BAG
It's unzipped revealing the body of SARAH CRABER, the body
enwombed in the dead horse.
JIMMY PRICE
Her name is Sarah Craber.
CAMERA PULLS UP AND OUT of the body bag, revealing we are --
INT. BAU - MORGUE - DAY
Jack observes as Zeller and Price hover over Sarah Craber on
the examination table.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 11.
JIMMY PRICE (CONTD)
She was a horse groom at the
stables where her body was found.
She was reported missing last week.
BRIAN ZELLER
We have a hand-spread on her neck,
but we haven't found anything on
her but horse uterus.
Zeller opens the victim's mouth. Shines a light inside.
JIMMY PRICE
The uterus isn't always such a
safe, nurturing place. Shark
fetuses cannibalize each other in
utero. And chances are very good
that everyone in this room has
absorbed a twin. Mine survived.
BRIAN ZELLER
Her throat's obstructed. Soil.
Someone packed it down there pretty
deep. There's none in her teeth.
He uses a small tool to remove a CLOD OF DIRT from her
throat. There's a RUSH OF AIR as Zeller unplugs the clog.
Jimmy leans across the body with an evidence bag, collecting
the dirt clod Zeller pulled out and fishing for others.
JIMMY PRICE
I'll check the pH levels, see what
organic matter or trace elements we
come up with. Should be able to
find out where it came from.
Suddenly, he jumps back, a frightened look on his face.
JIMMY PRICE (CONTD)
She has a heartbeat.
JACK CRAWFORD
She was in rigor--
BRIAN ZELLER
(feels her neck)
There's no pulse.
JIMMY PRICE
She has a heartbeat.
BRIAN ZELLER
(feels her chest)
She has a heartbeat.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 12.
Jack steps forward, feels the woman's chest.
JACK CRAWFORD
Something's beating.
CLOSE ON A SCALPEL
It CUTS INTO the flesh of Sarah Craber's chest.
CLOSE ON EXPOSED RIBS
A RIB SPREADER is fastened in place.
ON ZELLER
He cranks the rib spreader and CRACK. Zeller continues to
crank the rib spreader, cracking the ribs as they spread. A
moment as he leans in for a closer look at the chest cavity.
A still moment, then:
FWUPFWUPFWUPFWUPFWUP
A ROBIN flutters out of the corpse's chest cavity and
flutters wildly about the room. As Zeller and Price cover
their heads, Jack stands his ground, unfazed.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 13.
ACT TWO
CLOSE ON A HORSE
His nostrils flare and his eyes are wide. He tosses his head
and shows his teeth.
HOOVES STAMP. NOSTRILS FLARE. TAILS SWISH. We are --
INT. HORSE STABLE - DAY
Horses in the stable stalls. Nervousness communicating
between them like an electric current.
WILL GRAHAM
Walks backward from FRAME right across the stable in front of
the horses, their heads turning to follow him. Will holds a
thick case folder under one arm.
WILL STOPS.
Looks down at the folder. It is open to a CRIME SCENE PHOTO
of the barn. The dead horse and Sarah Craber's body as seen
at the end of the Teaser.
Will closes his eyes. The ORGANIC HUM of his CIRCULATORY SYSTEM
is loud in his ears. A PENDULUM swings across the blackness
behind his eyes. FWUM. FWUM. It clicks into place.
WILL'S EYES OPEN. He now stands --
INT. HORSE STABLE - NIGHT
Deep rural darkness. Will looks to the horses in the stalls.
Nervously moving and stamping.
WILL GRAHAM
I don't want you to see me. I
don't want you to see what I do. I
want to calm you, comfort you.
He slides cloth hoods over the horses' heads. Strokes their
necks. Murmurs gently. Calming them.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
There's so much comfort in
darkness. But not for one of you.
Now Will is leading a horse from its stall. The dead horseto-be. It too is hooded and stands calmly as Will strokes
its neck. And then slides a large needle into its neck.
Will holds the horse's head lovingly.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 14.
NEW ANGLE
Will stands over the now-dead horse.
CUT TO:
WIDE on the open stable doors framed like a proscenium arch.
Centered within them is Will Graham; the dead womb woman in
his arms. He bears her gently, like Lear carrying his
beloved Cordelia. Will carries her to the dead horse.
Places her gently on the ground.
CLOSE-UP -- next to her, a small, DRAPED CAGE. Will pulls
away the drape to reveal the robin which immediately begins
to flutter inside.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
I took your life and then tried to
give it back to you.
The robin flutters in its cage. Sarah Craber stares, her
face smeared with dirt, mouth full of soil...
Will takes a KNIFE and begins to slice open the horse's
abdomen. It's hard work and takes real effort.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
I find its womb, place you inside.
TRACK AROUND Will's back to the birdcage. It is now empty.
Sarah Craber is gone, too.
TIME HAS PASSED and Will is now stitching up the wound in the
horse's belly.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
I hope that the forces of death and
biology will bring you rebirth.
LOW ANGLE, past the horse's body, onto Will Graham as he
stands and stares at his handiwork.
CUT TO:
INT. HORSE STABLE - DAY
Will holds the open file in his hands.
WILL GRAHAM
It's a coffin birth.
CAMERA reveals Jack Crawford standing nearby.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 15.
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
Decomposition builds up gasses
within the putrefied body and
pushes the dead fetus out of its
mother's corpse. It's really more
of a prolapse than a birth.
JACK CRAWFORD
Not to whoever did this.
WILL GRAHAM
Whoever did this knew the horse.
Knew she was dying because her foal
was born dead. Knew Sarah Craber.
(then)
He's familiar with the stables. He
knew when he wouldn't get caught.
He works here or maybe used to. He
has medical knowledge of animals,
but isn't a veterinarian. He
considers himself a healer.
JACK CRAWFORD
How is this healing?
WILL GRAHAM
Sarah Craber was reborn. And a
mother and her child are finally on
the same side of life. This wasn't
murder, Jack. This was grief.
OFF Jack considering their next move --
CUT TO:
A BLACK HORSE
Its head looking over a half door, breath frosting the air.
Beyond it we see an FBI SUV coming down the track. We are --
EXT. ANIMAL RESCUE - DAY
Two weathered buildings stand in a rustic setting, the animal
rescue and, beyond it, a LARGE-ANIMAL BARN where the black
horse looks out over its stall door.
The SUV pulls up and stops. Jack and Will in the front seat.
INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - DAY
Will and Jack approach the doors and find them open. Share a
look and then Jack pulls the door aside and they enter. It
is dark inside, but full of low noises...
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 16.
SCRATCHING, SKITTERING, SQUEAKS and BREATHING. Like the room
is somehow alive.
Jack KNOCKS on the doorframe. And the room explodes with
NOISE. On every wall, floor-to-ceiling metal cages contain
small WILD ANIMALS in different stages of medical care.
Raccoons, skunks, squirrels and birds of all kinds. All now
going crazy with AGITATION.
PETER BERNARDONE (O.S.)
Scare them when ya' knock like that.
Jack and Will turn to find PETER BERNARDONE, a weathered,
lean man. Wild-looking himself. A scar on his forehead.
JACK CRAWFORD
Peter Bernardone?
He moves past them, his focus on the animals as he lowers
DROP CLOTHS over the cages, immediately quieting them.
JACK CRAWFORD (CONTD)
You don't seem curious who we are.
PETER BERNARDONE
Who are you?
JACK CRAWFORD
Agent Jack Crawford. FBI. This is
Will Graham. We'd like to ask you
about someone you might have had
contact with when you worked at
Blackbriar Stables. Sarah Craber.
Her body was found recently in very
unusual circumstances.
PETER BERNARDONE
I heard.
WILL GRAHAM
There was a bird in her chest. Did
you hear about that?
PETER BERNARDONE
Is the bird alive?
WILL GRAHAM
Yes.
A flicker of relief.
PETER BERNARDONE
Who's taking care of it?
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 17.
JACK CRAWFORD
How well did you know Sarah Craber?
PETER BERNARDONE
I didn't know her.
JACK CRAWFORD
Would you mind looking at a
photograph for me?
Peter shakes his head, turns and murmurs to his animals.
PETER BERNARDONE
I know who she is, I just didn't
know her.
JACK CRAWFORD
(re: the picture)
Just to be sure.
Reluctantly, Peter takes it. Will is watching him closely.
Taking a deep breath, Peter turns his line of sight away from
Jack. Reaches for the photo. Looks at it closely, then
repeats the same pattern. Looks away from Jack. Then hands
him the photo. Under this, Jack and Will exchange looks.
WILL GRAHAM
Peter, you had a head injury when
you worked at the stables.
PETER BERNARDONE
I was kicked by a horse.
Jack looks at Will.
WILL GRAHAM
It's an atypical motor response.
Peter's ability to look and touch
can only happen as separate events.
(to Peter)
Aggravated by stress, isn't it?
Peter glances at Will, exposed and somehow understood.
JACK CRAWFORD
Are you feeling stressed?
PETER BERNARDONE
I'm worried about the bird.
JACK CRAWFORD
A woman is dead, Mr. Bernardone.
And you're worried about a bird.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 18.
PETER BERNARDONE
I'm sad for her, I'm sad for the
horse. But I can't help them. I
can help the bird.
He turns away and goes to the cages. Jack and Will watch.
EXT. ANIMAL RESCUE - DAY
As they walk back to the car:
WILL GRAHAM
He knows the victim. He knows the
animals involved.
JACK CRAWFORD
We'll need a warrant.
WILL GRAHAM
I don't know if he's the killer,
Jack. If he is, he never meant to
be. If he isn't, he knows who is.
CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY
Will sits with Hannibal. Mid therapy session.
HANNIBAL
You were able to reconstruct his
fantasies. One dead creature
giving birth to another. The bird,
his victim's new beating heart.
Her soul given wings.
WILL GRAHAM
Rebirths can only ever be symbolic.
HANNIBAL
You've been reborn.
WILL GRAHAM
Wasn't that the goal of my therapy?
HANNIBAL
How does it feel consulting again
with Jack Crawford and the FBI?
Last time it nearly destroyed you.
WILL GRAHAM
Last time you nearly destroyed me.
Hannibal sighs.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 19.
HANNIBAL
After everything that's happened,
Will, you still believe--
WILL GRAHAM
You can stop right there. You may
have to pretend, but I don't.
Hannibal stares at Will, smiles, then:
HANNIBAL
No, you don't. Not with me.
WILL GRAHAM
I don't expect you to admit
anything. You can't. But I prefer
sins of omission to outright lies,
Dr. Lecter. Don't lie to me.
HANNIBAL
Will you return the courtesy? Why
have you resumed your therapy?
WILL GRAHAM
Can't just talk to any
psychiatrist about what's kicking
round my head.
Hannibal gauges Will thoughtfully, then asks:
HANNIBAL
Do you fantasize about killing me?
WILL GRAHAM
Yes.
HANNIBAL
Tell me. How would you do it?
Will considers that a moment, then:
WILL GRAHAM
With my hands.
HANNIBAL
Then we haven't moved past
apologies and forgiveness.
WILL GRAHAM
We've moved past a lot of things.
I discovered a truth about myself
when I tried to have you killed.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 20.
HANNIBAL
That doing bad things to bad people
makes you feel good?
WILL GRAHAM
Yes.
HANNIBAL
I need to know if you're going to
try to kill me again, Will.
WILL GRAHAM
I don't want to kill you anymore,
Dr. Lecter, not now that I finally
find you interesting.
CAMERA PUSHES IN on Hannibal and we...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 21.
ACT THREE
A RECENTLY-DUG GRAVE
CAMERA PULLS UP AND AWAY to reveal --
EXT. FIELD - NIGHT
That the grave is at the center of FIFTEEN other graves. Now
we see POLICE VEHICLES. BAU TECHS move in and out of FRAME.
Large SPOTLIGHTS turning night into day.
Brian Zeller stops his work as he sees Will Graham approaching.
A long beat. Then he approaches Will.
BRIAN ZELLER
I owe you an apology.
WILL GRAHAM
You don't owe me anything.
BRIAN ZELLER
I thought you were a killer.
Didn't want to hear anything else.
So wouldn't consider anything else.
WILL GRAHAM
The evidence was compelling.
BRIAN ZELLER
Didn't stop Beverly questioning it.
If she thought we'd listen, maybe
she'd have come to us. She didn't.
And there is the pain for all of them. Brian Zeller holds
out a hand. Will shakes it. As they part, reveal Jack
Crawford standing behind them, letting them get it done.
He looks at Will.
JACK CRAWFORD
We tracked the soil in Sarah
Craber's mouth to this vicinity.
Methane probes did the rest. Found
her empty grave. Then found fifteen
others that aren't so empty.
WILL GRAHAM
If Peter Bernardone knew about
Sarah Craber's grave, then he knew
about all of them.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 22.
JACK CRAWFORD
Still think he's not a killer?
CLOSE ON HANNIBAL LECTER
He's staring toward CAMERA.
HANNIBAL
Every human being is capable of
committing acts of great cruelty.
We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S OFFICE - DAY
Hannibal is in session with Margot Verger.
MARGOT VERGER
My family doesnt see me as the
victim. They see me as the passiveaggressor. They were disgusted by
what my brother did. Not with him.
With me for allowing it to happen.
HANNIBAL
Your brother dehumanized you and
your family unfortunately fosters
that climate of disrespect.
MARGOT VERGER
They think Im weird.
HANNIBAL
Im much weirder than you will ever
be, Margot. Its fine to be weird.
MARGOT VERGER
Theyve already forgiven him. Talk
shows and self-help books thrive on
this sort of thing. Everybody
loves a sinner redeemed.
Hannibal watches her, studying her.
MARGOT VERGER (CONTD)
Hes the prodigal son, set about
repairing his ways. He may have
made bad choices before. But now
he can make new, better choices.
HANNIBAL
Do you believe that?
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 23.
MARGOT VERGER
Do you believe me?
HANNIBAL
Its not my role to believe you,
Margot; its my role to help you
understand what you believe.
Frustratingly noncommittal.
MARGOT VERGER
I believe my brother won't stop.
HANNIBAL
How does that make you feel?
MARGOT VERGER
Angry.
HANNIBAL
Anger is an energizing emotion;
prompts action against threat. If
youre angry, youre optimistic you
can stop this from happening again.
MARGOT VERGER
I know how to stop it.
HANNIBAL
Anybody can become angry.
According to Aristotle, thats the
easy part. But to be angry with
the right person, and to the right
degree, and at the right time, and
for the right purpose, and in the
right way. Thats not easy.
Margot averts her eyes. Hannibal sits forward.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
If you really want to kill your
brother, Margot. Wait until you
can get away with it. Or find
someone to do it for you.
CUT TO:
WILL GRAHAM
CAMERA MOVES AROUND HIM to reveal he's holding the robin in
its cage. We are --
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 24.
INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - DAY
Will sits on one side of the examination table. Peter sits
on the other side. The bird is between them, acting as a
buffer as Will coaxes conversation out of Peter.
WILL GRAHAM
Said you're worried about the bird.
Thought you might like to see it.
PETER BERNARDONE
Isn't this evidence?
WILL GRAHAM
I'm not FBI. I used to sort of be
FBI. But now I'm really not.
PETER BERNARDONE
What are you?
WILL GRAHAM
I'm figuring that out. You might
say this is some kind of therapy.
PETER BERNARDONE
I've already got a social worker.
WILL GRAHAM
Therapy's not for you, it's for me.
(then)
The agent I was here with. He's
coming back with a warrant. He'll
arrest you, impound your animals.
And it will break your heart.
PETER BERNARDONE
I didn't kill anybody.
WILL GRAHAM
I know you didn't, but that's not
always relevant. What did you do,
Peter? They found Sarah Craber's
grave. How did you find it?
Peter's attention drifts from Will, focusing on the robin.
PETER BERNARDONE
Funny how you can develop an
individual language with an animal
only you can understand. No one
else knows, not even other animals.
(re: the bird)
This one's already speaking to me.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 25.
WILL GRAHAM
This one's spoken to you before.
(off his look)
At some point, almost every culture
believed birds carried our souls
into the afterlife.
(then)
They can't all be wrong.
PETER BERNARDONE
You think I think this bird is
Sarah Craber? She's gone, she's
everywhere and nowhere.
WILL GRAHAM
Tell me who killed her.
Peter goes still, thoughtful. He regards the bird.
PETER BERNARDONE
After something so ugly, I just
wanted something beautiful for her.
WILL GRAHAM
You were grieving her. You
couldn't save her, but you could
bring poetry to her death.
PETER BERNARDONE
I wanted you to find me. If you
could find me, you could find him.
WILL GRAHAM
Do you have a shadow, Peter?
Someone only you can see. He's
someone you considered a friend.
He made you feel you weren't alone.
Until you saw what he really is,
and it made you even lonelier.
PETER BERNARDONE
No one will believe me. He'll make
sure no one will believe me.
WILL GRAHAM
I'll make sure they do.
OFF Peter Bernardone considering Will's offer --
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 26.
ACT FOUR
INT. BAU - INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT
Alana Bloom is with CLARK INGRAM, late 30s, neat, smiling.
The TWO-WAY MIRROR is at Alana's back. Mid conversation:
CLARK INGRAM
Every social worker enjoys some
aspects of the job more than
others. There are cases that you
reach and cases you don't reach.
ALANA BLOOM
Your notes on Peter Bernardone's
file are drastically different than
the ones from his last case worker.
CLARK INGRAM
The social services system is far
from perfect. It's common to omit
certain information on difficult
cases to clear a path in the world
for those stuck in the weeds.
ALANA BLOOM
His sort of traumatic brain injury
can make someone more vulnerable to
psychological disorders.
CLARK INGRAM
Post-concussion syndrome. He's had
persistent cognitive problems.
Confusion, paranoia, rage. Would
have refused his case if I'd known.
ALANA BLOOM
You don't seem to feel sorry for
your client. A surprising lack of
empathy in a social worker.
CLARK INGRAM
Peter Bernardone has accused me of
murdering sixteen women.
ALANA BLOOM
How does that make you feel?
CLARK INGRAM
Right now I'm feeling
inconvenienced. I'm being detained
on the word of one very damaged
individual.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 27.
ALANA BLOOM
You're not being detained, you're
being interviewed. The FBI is just
being thorough.
Alana bends to scribble a note. Ingram's smile falls. When
she looks up, he smiles again. Automatic. A mask.
CLARK INGRAM
What are you writing down?
ALANA BLOOM
An observation.
CLARK INGRAM
About me?
Alana smiles at Ingram and seemingly instinctively reaches
out to touch Ingram's hand on the tabletop.
ALANA BLOOM
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to make
you feel uncomfortable.
He pulls his hand away. His face changes, eyes become still
and cold. Then he smiles again, forcing charm back through.
ANGLE ON WILL GRAHAM
Watching intently through the observation mirror.
Reveal Jack and Hannibal alongside him. Will looks at them.
WILL GRAHAM
Smart. She keeps pushing him on his
feelings, not the facts. She's
trying to gauge how comfortable he
is with emotion, if he has any. He
couldn't bear to be touched by her.
Jack looks at Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
His responses are typical of many
psychopaths during interviews, but
could also be resentment.
WILL GRAHAM
His eyes are dead. He's a predator.
ANGLE ON ALANA AND INGRAM
ALANA BLOOM
Did you know Sarah Craber?
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 28.
CLARK INGRAM
No. Peter talked about her
extensively during my house visits.
I'd say he was obsessed with her.
ALANA BLOOM
You think Peter Bernardone is
capable of murder?
CLARK INGRAM
I'm not a psychiatrist, Dr. Bloom.
Alana nods, makes another note.
ALANA BLOOM
I'm curious, Mr. Ingram. Why did
you become a social worker?
CLARK INGRAM
Society needs caring people.
ALANA BLOOM
It also needs a few psychopaths to
keep the rest of us on our toes.
He leans forward to Alana, the smile gone now.
CLARK INGRAM
There is no evidence I did this.
It's a statement of fact for him, not of innocence.
CLARK INGRAM (CONTD)
And if you want to know how I feel,
I feel like I don't want to be here
anymore. If I'm not being
detained, I'd like to be on my way.
Alana watches him without speaking.
ANGLE ON JACK
He leans forward and presses a button on the console.
JACK CRAWFORD
Let him go.
WILL GRAHAM
You're making a mistake, Jack.
JACK CRAWFORD
I've got nothing to hold him on.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 29.
WILL GRAHAM
Peter Bernardone is psychologically
disadvantaged. He's been
manipulated. As his social worker,
this man is in a position of trust.
He betrayed that trust.
Hannibal is still watching Alana and Ingram. Alana holding
the door for him as he exits.
ANGLE ON WILL
WILL GRAHAM (CONTD)
I know what it's like to point at a
killer and have no one listen.
JACK CRAWFORD
You pointed in the wrong direction.
Hannibal looks at Jack, then at Will.
CUT TO:
INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - NIGHT
Oddly quiet and still. Dark inside, but the low noises we've
heard before are absent. Peter walks inside and senses
something is wrong. Turns on a light to find --
THE WALLS OF CAGES
Are all empty. Their doors thrown open. The food and
bedding tossed haphazardly about.
Peter moans deep within himself. Turns and exits --
EXT. ANIMAL RESCUE - NIGHT
Peter comes out running and heads for the large-animal barn.
He rushes inside.
CUT TO:
INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - LARGE-ANIMAL BARN - NIGHT
ON PETER
The horse lies dead on the floor amidst the pens and stalls.
Bleeding out from a head wound, next to a bloody hammer.
Peter drops to his knees and strokes the horse's head. A
shadow falls across him and he turns to see Clark Ingram
standing behind him. Incongruously, Ingram holds a bloodied
hammer, a tuft of black horse hair stuck to the blood.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 30.
CLARK INGRAM
What have you done, Peter? I'm
worried about you. You've been
expressing a lot of rage recently.
Peter stares at him as if he were mad, tears welling.
CLARK INGRAM (CONTD)
So often in my line of work, I see
people take out their resentments
on those closest to them. It's a
sad fact of human nature. And your
brain injury leaves you prone to
extremes of emotion. The way you
think is compromised.
(sadly)
Peter, you're destroying your life.
Peter is realizing how realistic this version of events
sounds. Shakes his head. Agitated. Hating the kernel of
truth behind these lies.
CLARK INGRAM (CONTD)
Sarah was a sad reminder of all the
things you'll never have.
(points with the hammer)
And that's the very horse who
kicked you in the head.
Peter looks at the horse.
PETER BERNARDONE
She was scared, she didn't mean to.
CLARK INGRAM
Some will say this was a long-time
coming. I know I will. Already
have. Sixteen women, Peter. You
killed the first shortly after your
accident. You killed them because
you weren't worthy of them.
Clark sounds so plausible. He smiles at Peter, suddenly his
eyes are so cruel.
PETER BERNARDONE
You killed them.
CLARK INGRAM
If I had killed them, it's because
I decided they were worthy of me.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 31.
His cruelty and malice are too much for Peter who quietly
eyes the hammer in Clark Ingram's hand --
CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S CAR - NIGHT
Hannibal drives along a dark country road, Will in the
passenger seat beside him. Hannibal looks at Will, his eyes
fixed ahead.
HANNIBAL
You look like a man who has
suffered an irrevocable loss.
WILL GRAHAM
I'm trying to prevent one.
HANNIBAL
Do you think if you save Peter
Bernardone, you can save yourself?
WILL GRAHAM
Save myself from who, Dr. Lecter?
HANNIBAL
From who you perceive me to be.
WILL GRAHAM
I'm afraid I need to be saved from
who you perceive me to be.
HANNIBAL
Every time you think about it, it
stings, doesn't it? Wondering if I
could be right about you.
(then)
Many troublesome behaviors strike
when we are uncertain of ourselves.
Peter Bernardone lies in the same
darkness that holds you.
WILL GRAHAM
I'm alone in that darkness.
HANNIBAL
You're not alone, Will. I'm
standing right beside you.
(then)
Does Peter Bernardone fantasize
about killing the way you do?
WILL GRAHAM
He's not a killer.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 32.
HANNIBAL
Given extreme enough circumstances,
we can all behave like psychopaths.
CUT TO:
EXT. ANIMAL RESCUE - NIGHT
Hannibal's car comes in and Will exits. Will rushes toward
the shelter.
INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - NIGHT
Will enters. Scans the room. Realizes the place has been
ransacked. Will stares at the devastation.
Hannibal appears behind him. Will draws his gun, turns and
rushes back past Hannibal.
EXT. ANIMAL RESCUE - NIGHT
Will runs across the yard to the large-animal barn.
WILL GRAHAM
Peter?! Peter Bernardone?!
Will enters the barn.
INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - LARGE-ANIMAL BARN - NIGHT
PETER BERNARDONE
Turns and looks at Will. His face is streaked with blood. A
cut on his head. CAMERA reveals that Peter is kneeling before
the dead black horse, a pool of blood spreading around him
from the terrible wound in its abdomen which he is finishing
stitching. The horse's belly is horribly distended.
Hannibal appears at Will's shoulder. Will lowers his gun.
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 33.
ACT FIVE
INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - LARGE-ANIMAL BARN - NIGHT
Will and Hannibal are still looking at Peter on the floor by
the dead black horse.
WILL GRAHAM
Peter... is your social worker
inside that horse?
Peter nods.
PETER BERNARDONE
We are hardwired to see human
beings everywhere. Every animal.
Every life. We're all human.
HANNIBAL
Even God is personified.
PETER BERNARDONE
(re: the horse)
He couldn't see that. He forfeited
his humanity. I forfeited mine.
(then)
I used to have a horrible fear of
hurting anything. He helped me get
over that. Feels so abnormal.
HANNIBAL
An abnormal reaction to an abnormal
situation is normal behavior.
PETER BERNARDONE
He deserves to die.
ON WILL, sad for Peter.
WILL GRAHAM
But you didn't deserve to kill him.
(beat)
I want you to come with me, Peter.
Peter nods, stands and allows Will to lead him from the
building and out into the darkness beyond.
STAY ON HANNIBAL
Taking in the scene, the metallic tang of blood thick in the air
as he sniffs it. He turns away and considers the night sky.
CAMERA RACKS to the dead horse in the background.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 34.
CLOSE ON THE GROWING TEAR IN THE HORSE'S BELLY
The flesh undulates. Guts spill. And then, as a BLOODIED
HAND forces its way out, grasping for ground, we --
CUT TO:
INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - NIGHT
Peter Bernardone moves sadly through the wreckage, righting
things, picking up cages, etc. Like a bereft mourner in the
space of a lost loved one. The absence pains him.
PETER BERNARDONE
Cowbirds lay their eggs in other
birds' nests. Tricks them into
raising their chicks. But a robin
knows when it's being used.
WILL GRAHAM
Did you know?
PETER BERNARDONE
I didn't want to know.
(then)
If a robin removes a cowbird's egg
from its nest, the cowbird will
destroy that nest, eggs and all.
WILL GRAHAM
Out of spite?
PETER BERNARDONE
It's not spite. Spite is uniquely
human. We just don't understand
why the cowbirds do it.
WILL GRAHAM
What was done to you was cruelty
for cruelty's sake.
Peter opens empty cages, as if to coax the animals home.
PETER BERNARDONE
Some of them will survive on their
own. Some of them won't. Some of
them will come home. But I won't
be here when they do, will I?
WILL GRAHAM
No.
PETER BERNARDONE
I hate him.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 35.
WILL GRAHAM
I envy your hate. Makes it much
easier when you know how to feel.
PETER BERNARDONE
Makes what easier?
WILL GRAHAM
Killing them.
PETER BERNARDONE
I didn't kill him. I wanted him to
wake up in death and choke on it.
ON WILL as this registers...
CUT TO:
INT. ANIMAL RESCUE - LARGE-ANIMAL BARN - NIGHT
LOW ANGLE --
CAMERA comes up over the black horse's body to reveal Clark
Ingram as he stands, fouled with blood and slime.
Hannibal has his back to Clark. Smiling as he feeds a
handful of meal to a PIG in a stall.
TRACK LOW across the floor, past Hannibal, toward Clark. As
we get close, we RACK FOCUS from Clark's nightmarish slick
face to the steel of the hammer still clotted with gore...
He bends and picks it up.
Reveal Hannibal watching, bemused and impressed.
HANNIBAL
Mr. Ingram.
Clark stands still, momentarily thrown by this polite greeting.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Might want to crawl back in there,
if you know what's good for you.
Hannibal turns his head and Will Graham steps out of darkness,
coming INTO FOCUS as he enters the barn, gun raised before him.
Hannibal steps to one side. Watching, fascinated.
Will approaches Ingram.
As Will approaches with the gun, Ingram sees murder in his
eyes and drops the hammer.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 36.
CLOSE-UP as it drops into the dirt and falls sideways.
Clark holds out his arms and drops to his knees like a
penitent. Smiles up at the advancing Will.
CLARK INGRAM
Officer, I'm the victim here.
WILL GRAHAM
I'm not an officer. I'm a friend
of Peter's.
His face falls as Will cocks the hammer.
CLARK INGRAM
Peter's confused.
FOCUS SLIDES along the barrel of the gun to the cocked hammer
and then Will's face beyond.
WILL GRAHAM
I'm not.
(to Clark Ingram)
Pick up the hammer.
HANNIBAL
Will.
WILL GRAHAM
Pick it up.
ON THE GUN
Will's finger tightens on the trigger.
ON CLARK INGRAM
His gaze and expression become steely and inscrutable.
ON HANNIBAL AND WILL
Hannibal moves to Will, a devil on his shoulder, whispers:
HANNIBAL
It won't feel the same, Will. It
won't feel like killing me.
WILL GRAHAM
It doesn't have to. I know what it
will feel like. It'll feel good.
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 37.
HANNIBAL
You did the best anyone could do
for Peter, but don't do this for
him. Not for Mr. Ingram's victims
or their many friends and relatives
who would love to see him dead.
(then)
If you're going to do this, Will...
(whispers)
You have to do it for yourself.
CLARK INGRAM
Please don't.
HANNIBAL
You would be wise to remain silent,
Mr. Ingram.
(to Will)
This is not the reckoning you
promised yourself, Will.
ON WILL
His finger so tight --
SLO-MO -- the trigger CLICKS -- the hammer FALLS --
ON HANNIBAL'S FINGER, between the hammer and firing pin.
Will looks at Hannibal as Hannibal slides his hand around
Will's and pulls the gun away. Their faces close together.
Hannibal talks quietly into Will's ear:
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
With all my knowledge and
intrusion, I could never entirely
predict you. I can feed the
caterpillar, whisper through the
chrysalis, but what hatches follows
its own nature and is beyond me.
OFF Will and Hannibal --
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #208 "Su-zakana" FINAL DRAFT 01/21/14 38.
Antipasto
Written by
Bryan Fuller
&
Steve Lightfoot
Directed by
Vincenzo Natali
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #301 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2015 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot 
HANNIBAL
"Antipasto"
TEASER
BLACK
A PANNING LIGHT reveals a HUMAN FACE frozen in torment. Then
a HAND grasping for freedom. Our light now reveals the
TORSO, lean and stretched in agony.
WIDER -- our light casts across a vertical group of HUMAN
BODIES, and as we move over it, the bodies ANIMATE, writhing
in torment.
REVERSE WIDE -- to blackness, and our light is now a
PINPOINT. Slowly enlarging as it comes toward us. And a LOW
DRONE accompanies it, indistinct, but unsettling.
The circle of light grows, and MORPHS into an EYE,
unblinking, as our drone increases, and then our eye again
MORPHS, becoming the SPINNING FRONT WHEEL of a motorcycle.
CLOSE ON A GLOVED HAND as it works the throttle, and the
drone PITCHES HIGHER as the bike changes gear.
ON OUR TORTURED HUMAN FORMS as they writhe against one another
-- and then, IMAGE IS SPLIT by the motorcycle's front wheel as
it splashes through the PUDDLE in which they were reflected.
CLOSE ON WATER DROPLETS as they are launched into the air,
like bubbles, a tortured soul reflecting, trapped, in each as
they spin through the air and turn BLOOD RED.
CLOSE ON THE REFLECTIVE BLACK VISOR of our bike's RIDER --
Figures writhe within the margins of the glass.
REVERSE -- WIDE -- behind the motorbike, now DWARFED IN FRAME
as it rides toward an IMMENSE PAIR OF GATES -- Rodin's Gates
of Hell, the sculpted bodies, caught in torment, adorning
each side.
REVERSE AGAIN -- and now we are back on our rider's visor --
the gates fill the visor, and as the rider gets closer, we
watch in the reflection as the gates BEGIN TO OPEN --
And through the opening space we see PARIS OPENING UP BEYOND.
The bike speeds through the gates, sending the tortured
figures into a new frenzy, and then he is through and the
reflection is now the frenzy of a PARIS NIGHT STREET...
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
The motorcycle -- a TRIUMPH BONNEVILLE -- swerves and cuts
between two cars like a knife through butter.
The Bonneville dances between lanes as the rider throws his
weight from side to side.
We enjoy his progress; his skill and prowess as he owns the
road.
CLOSE ON the reflective visor of his helmet, the world beyond
zooming by, reflected in the black glass.
His gloved hands on the throttle; his foot as it kicks the
powerful bike through the gears.
The Bonneville BRAKES to a sudden halt. The rider gets off.
Dressed in Belstaff. He removes the helmet. For a brief
second, those bodies writhe across it again -- there, and then
gone -- and we see the rider now: it is HANNIBAL LECTER.
As we haven't seen him before. Looser, longer hair; a little
rougher; a man free of responsibilities.
INT. PARIS PARTY VENUE - NIGHT
PALE YELLOW LIQUID fizzes into a glass flute. A hand takes the
champagne and moves from a bar, and we go with it, revealing --
A PARTY CROWD -- under a banner: "Bon Voyage, Roman Fell."
It is a well-heeled leaving party for DR. ROMAN FELL, a tall,
lean man of 50, sporting a fine academic's beard. He holds
court in the center of the room. He loves the attention of a
crowd of young acolytes and well-wishers.
We move through the throng, toward him. As people part in front
of us, we REVERSE to reveal this is Hannibal Lecter's POV.
His eyes fixed on Roman Fell.
STAY ON Hannibal as he moves lithely through the crowd,
bodies between him and us, he is there and then gone -- like
a tiger moving through the long grass. His eyes never
leaving his prey. Appraising, calculating...
A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN crosses his path, makes eye contact.
Hannibal returns it. Raises his glass.
She smiles, but Hannibal inclines his head and passes on the
invitation to linger. Steps around her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 2.
ANTONY DIMMOND, 40s, tall, lean, somewhat louche-looking --
his clothes expensive, but old and worn -- darts suddenly at
a WAITRESS with a tray of champagne, snaffles two glasses.
He tosses one back quickly, then notices Hannibal noticing.
ANTONY DIMMOND
(re: his two glasses)
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
(then)
Antony Dimmond. I'd offer a hand,
but--
HANNIBAL
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Do you know Roman well?
Dimmond clocks Hannibal's eyes wandering back toward Dr. Fell
amid a circle of people.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
You were staring with the thinlyveiled disdain of a man who does.
I was his TA at Cambridge. He was
insufferable even then.
Dimmond finishes the second flute of champagne and puts it on a
passing tray. Grabs two more and hands Hannibal one of them.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Have you read his books? They're
terrible. You know they're
terrible, but you're too polite to
say. Blink if you agree.
(off his blink)
See.
Dimmond pulls a weathered paperback from his coat pocket.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
That doesn't stop him squatting
over a keyboard and depositing a
fresh one every six to eight
months. It has taken me six to
eight months to write one line.
HANNIBAL
Why?
Dimmond stares at Hannibal a moment, as if the answer is
abundantly clear, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 3.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Poetry is hard. Was too hard for
Roman. Easier for him to slide into
academia and dissect the efforts of
others than stand by his own words.
HANNIBAL
One can appreciate another's words
without dissecting them. Though,
on occasion, dissection is the only
thing that will do.
OFF Hannibal's glance in Dr. Fell's direction...
CUT TO:
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
Dr. Roman Fell walks home, merrily drunk, excited by the
prospect of his new adventure.
Behind him, our Bonneville idles slowly across the street.
As Hannibal is putting on his helmet:
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir.
Dr. Fell is reflected in the black maw of Hannibal's visor as
Hannibal slowly follows him, then passes him by. CAMERA
follows Dr. Fell as Hannibal's Bonneville speeds away.
EXT./INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
Dr. Fell enters his building and heads up the stairs. He
stops short when he sees Hannibal standing outside his door.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir?
CUT TO:
INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
BLOOD RED WINE SPLASHES up the sides of a glass.
Hands place an OPERA RECORD on a turntable. CLOSE ON the
needle as it drops.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 4.
BUTTER melts in a pan.
LIVER is tossed in with a sizzle... a dash of brandy is added
and flares into flame.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's knife and fork as it slices through the
liver on his plate.
A blush of blood STAINS the juices on the plate. He brings
it to his lips. Chews.
Delicious.
CUT TO:
PUSH IN OMINOUSLY
On the inside of the closed apartment door.
CLOSER and CLOSER till the handle turns and it opens toward
us -- and a stylishly-dressed woman enters.
MRS. FELL!
She hears the opera and smiles.
Moves toward the dining room.
She halts in the doorway.
CAMERA moves around her to register the cause of her confusion.
MRS. FELL'S POV
Hannibal Lecter sits at the table, linen and cutlery
immaculately placed. Savoring his food, a nice Bordeaux and
the music.
Hannibal smiles up at her.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 5.
ACT ONE
DARKNESS
A REFLECTIVE SHAPE moves toward CAMERA. It is --
A LARGE SILVER DOME.
It covers a sizeable serving platter that is moving through a
darkened room until, finally, the REFLECTION OF ABEL GIDEON
bows across its surface. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
ABEL GIDEON sits at the beautifully-appointed table; he has a
drip in one arm and a chest monitor. Under the table, we see
that Gideon is now missing both legs at the thigh. (NOTE:
This takes place between Eps. #206 and 207.)
The silver dome turns and Gideon watches his reflection SLIDE
DOWN the length of the platter. The platter is lifted from
the sidecar and placed in the middle of the dinner table.
The large silver dome rises off the platter as if by unseen
hands floating somewhere in the darkness. Underneath the
dome and further unveiled by a SILKY CLOUD OF SMOKE:
GIDEON'S LEG
From hip to ankle, beautifully roasted with SUGAR CANE QUILLS
sticking out of the flesh in a pleasing grid pattern. It's
mounted on a plank, like a long whole ham.
DR. GIDEON
You really are the Devil.
Certainly seem to enjoy it. You
have a click in your hoof.
FROM GIDEON'S POV -- HANNIBAL
He appears to MATERIALIZE out of the THINNING MIST rising off
the bed of smoking sprigs of thyme.
HANNIBAL
The Devil has been a yoke on the
neck of humanity since we first
began to think and dream.
(then)
I for a much shorter time.
Gideon takes a deep, appreciative breath.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 6.
DR. GIDEON
You admit the yoke.
(then)
Smells like candy apples. And
thyme. You smoked me in thyme.
HANNIBAL
Smoked. Glazed. Slow-cooked.
Served on a sugar cane quill. You
will be falling off the bone.
Hannibal plucks a sugar cane quill, pulling out a MEDALLION
OF MEAT from Gideon's severed leg, like a Popsicle stick, and
placing it on his guest's plate.
DR. GIDEON
Well, of course.
(then)
And with these rarified dishes you
so thoughtfully prepare...
(then)
...do we all taste different?
HANNIBAL
Everyone has their flavor.
Gideon's eyes narrow, not giving Hannibal the satisfaction of
seeing him impressed one way or another.
DR. GIDEON
Cannibalism was standard behavior
among our ancestors. Missing link
is only missing because we ate him.
HANNIBAL
This isn't cannibalism, Abel. It's
only cannibalism if we're equals.
DR. GIDEON
It's only cannibalism if you eat
me. But you feel this is just the
natural order of things? Everybody
gets et?
HANNIBAL
Be he fat or be he lean.
DR. GIDEON
My last leg standing across the
table from me, and I still wrestle
with the urges to fight or flee.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 7.
HANNIBAL
It's called "terminal restlessness."
The body fills with adrenaline and
feels compelled to go-go-go.
DR. GIDEON
"Go-go-go"? I've already got up
and gone. This is posthumous.
HANNIBAL
You're not dead yet, Abel. You
still have to eat.
DR. GIDEON
No, I don't.
Gideon takes a bite of the medallion of meat before him.
It's truly something special, but once again, he doesn't give
Hannibal the satisfaction. Hannibal smiles, regardless.
Gideon is about to take another bite, but pauses to glance
around the beautifully-appointed room and at his devilish host.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
At this point, there is absolutely
nothing I have to do. But I don't
want to spoil the fairy tale, do I?
You and your gingerbread house.
HANNIBAL
Let it be a fairy tale, then.
(then)
Once upon a time...
OFF Hannibal...
GRAND MUSIC begins to rise, taking us to --
INT. FLORENCE BALLROOM - NIGHT
A dazzlingly-dressed couple as they sweep ACROSS FRAME in a
stylish waltz.
It could be a scene from Cinderella's dreams... The glitter
of jewelry and champagne. The dash of black tie and
ballgowns; the dance floor filled with couples sweeping in
graceful patterns across it.
CAMERA moves through the dancing figures to find a
particularly-elegant couple and stays with them as they swoop
across the floor... They waltz around CAMERA, faces hidden
from us as they move in perfect union, until the music comes
to an end and the man dips his partner low to the ground --
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 8.
Revealing Hannibal and a stunning BEDELIA DU MAURIER... a
prince and his princess. He smiles down at her, both
somewhat breathless.
A beat, and then he pulls her back to him.
HANNIBAL
Bellissima.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
Hannibal snags them both champagne off a passing tray.
SOGLIATO (O.S.)
Dr. Fell, I hope you translate as
well as you waltz.
SOGLIATO is a smooth, oily Italian, late 30s. Impeccably
dressed. An academic who wears his ego like armor. Sogliato
kisses Bedelia's hand and then shakes Hannibal's. He stands
with SIGNOR and SIGNORA ALBIZZI -- president of the museum's
governing board.
SIGNOR ALBIZZI
Our new appointee was confirmed by
the board after close questioning.
SOGLIATO
You've examined him in medieval
Italian, and I will not deny his
language is admirable.
Bedelia watches this exchange. Intrigued. Aware others in
the crowd are observing. As is Sogliato...
HANNIBAL
Thank you.
SOGLIATO
For a straniero.
Sogliato smiles at the audience now ear-wigging shamelessly.
Bedelia is watching Hannibal, the way his eyes go dead for a
second at the insult before he smiles.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Are you familiar with the
personalities of pre-Renaissance
Florence? I think not. (a smile for Bedelia)
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 9.
(MORE)
Dr. Fell might hold in his hand --
in his non-Italian hand -- a note
from Dante Alighieri himself. Would
he recognize it? I think not.
Bedelia intercedes:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato, would you do me
the honor of a dance?
Bedelia offers her arm. Keen to lead him away. Hannibal
noting her intention. As they turn away:
HANNIBAL "Allegro mi sembrava Amor tenendo /
meo core in mano, e ne le braccia
avea / madonna involta in un drappo
dormendo. / Poi la svegliava, e
d'esto core ardendo / lei paventosa
umilmente pascea; / appreso gir lo
ne vedea piangendo."
Some of those listening applaud loudly at this stirring
recital. Sogliato hates it. Bedelia smiles at Hannibal.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dante's first sonnet. It
fascinated Cavalcanti. The eating
of the heart is a powerful image.
Hannibal doesn't have to be smug; Signor Albizzi is smug for
him. Off that smugness:
SOGLIATO
If he's such an expert on Dante,
let him lecture on Dante, to the
Studiolo. Let him face them.
(then)
Extempore.
The reaction of the crowd says this is a strong challenge.
Hannibal merely inclines his head.
HANNIBAL
I'm happy to sing for my supper.
He holds Sogliato's gaze. Battle met.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato.
Bedelia looks to Sogliato who takes her hand to dance.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 10.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Hannibal smiles at Bedelia who doesn't return his smile.
EXT. FLORENCE - NIGHT
CAMERA moves across the city as the evening gathers and the
streets empty, the fan pattern of the cobbles shining in a
drizzle. CAMERA finds A SILHOUETTED MAN on a balcony.
CLOSE ON HANNIBAL
As we watch, his face becomes washed with amber, as if under
liquid, flowing and indistinct.
We are now --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
STAY ON this Hannibal in amber, framed within the proscenium
arch of his balcony, looking out over Florence...
HANNIBAL
We are among the palaces built six
hundred years ago by the merchant
princes, the kingmakers and
connivers of Renaissance Florence.
...until Bedelia reaches for the glass of brandy he is
offering her and breaks the illusion.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
As connivers of modern Florence.
Hannibal looks out over the city, considering its romance.
HANNIBAL
I've found a peace here that I
would preserve. I've killed hardly
anybody during our residence.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You created the vacancy at the
Palazzo Capponi by removing the
former curator.
HANNIBAL
A simple process requiring a few
seconds' work on the old man and a
modest outlay for two bags of cement.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You no longer have ethical
problems, Hannibal. You have
aesthetical ones.
(re: her zipper)
Could you?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 11.
She turns and Hannibal stands behind her and slowly unzips
her dress, revealing her bare back.
HANNIBAL
Ethics become aesthetics.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You seem more concerned with making
appearances than maintaining them.
HANNIBAL
If this is about my position at the
Palazzo, once the path was cleared,
I won the job fairly. On my merits.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes, even the most-contentious
Florentines can't resist the verse
of Dante ringing off frescoed walls.
HANNIBAL
One contentious Florentine can.
Bedelia crosses into:
INT. HANNIBAL'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY/BEDELIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
A large, freestanding CAST-IRON BATH in there. Bedelia
enters and turns the ornate taps. Water thunders out. She
turns to see Hannibal in the doorway.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Have you given serious thought to
eating Professor Sogliato?
HANNIBAL
My killing Sogliato now would not
preserve the peace.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Your peace is without morality.
HANNIBAL
Morality doesn't exist. Only morale.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How you feel today.
HANNIBAL
How do you feel today?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I still believe I'm in conscious
control of my actions. Given your
history, that's a good day.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 12.
OFF Bedelia's soft, polite smile...
CLOSE ON A RUSHING TAP
It is turned off and the steaming torrent becomes a DRIP. The
drip sends RINGS spreading to the deep sides of the bathtub.
Bedelia lies back and IMMERSES herself under the water. The
surface six inches from her mouth. Like Ophelia lying under
the surface of the lake... HOLDING HER BREATH -- A SINGLE
BUBBLE escapes her lips and slowly pops on the surface. She
stares upward. Slowly, her eyes close.
Around her, the water DARKENS TO BLACK, as if the bottom of
the bath has fallen away to reveal an ENDLESS DEPTH. And now
Bedelia is SLOWLY SINKING, horizontally sliding downward into
the Stygian dark...
BEDELIA'S POV -- amid the darkness, GNARLED ROOTS clamber
around one another, slick and wet amid the water...
LOWER and LOWER she sinks, beyond this level, into the next.
Until finally she comes to the BOTTOM and her body comes to
rest in a black silt that RISES AROUND HER in SWIRLS and
WISPS, as if welcoming her into its grasp.
ON BEDELIA'S CLOSED EYES
Another SOLITARY BUBBLE rises from her lips, and we RISE AWAY
from her to follow its progress.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
An area of ARTISAN FOOD STORES -- the streets thronged with
shoppers. CAMERA finds Bedelia among them, moving through
the crowd, a distant focus in her eyes.
CLOSE ON BEDELIA
A POLICE CONSTABLE comes down the street toward her. He
smiles, tips his hat to the beautiful lady. She nods, her
smile fading the moment he passes.
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
An elegant Florentine fine grocer filled with fine wines and
exotic cheeses. Bedelia approaches the CLERK at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
CUT TO:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 13.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
Bedelia sits on a bench, her shopping bag from Vera dal 1926
next to her. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal...
...she sits on the platform of a train station.
A CCTV camera sits above her, covering the length of the
platform. Bedelia looks up at it and then back to the TRAIN
which is about to depart. Its open carriage doors are an
invitation... Will she take it?
OFF Bedelia...
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 14.
ACT TWO
EXT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PUSHES IN as headlights roll up the driveway and
across the siding of the house as a car approaches.
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - FOYER/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA moves through the darkened hall until FRAMING AN
EXTREME CLOSE-UP ON THE FRONT DOORKNOB.
The SOUND OF A KEY in the door --
Breaks the quiet. LIGHT SPILLS in as the door opens.
Bedelia enters.
She turns to the living room as CAMERA reveals almost every
piece of her furniture is beneath a drop cloth, protected
against dust for an indefinite period of time -- just as she
left it before she fled Hannibal and the FBI.
(NOTE: Bedelia has just come from the FBIs interrogation
room, as seen in Ep. #212, Tome-wan.)
Bedelia takes in the shroud of the chairs, walking the rooms
periphery, searching for some sense of herself. She pauses.
AN EMPTY CHAIR
Where she left a glass-cut perfume bottle for Hannibal weeks
earlier. Its gone. She considers its absence, then:
CLOSE ON THE SPIKE OF A CORKSCREW
It TWISTS through the cork in a bottle of wine. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia opens the bottle of wine and pours herself a glass.
She reacts, twists the bottle upward to stem the flow. One
last drop of wine falls into the glass and she listens.
CAMERA FOLLOWS BEDELIA
She moves into the hall as a distinct sound grows louder and
louder until she recognizes it. The shower is running.
INT. BEDELIA'S HOUSE - BEDROOM/BATHROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
She moves into her bedroom, toward the open door of her
bathroom through which she can see bloody clothes strewn
across the floor and a MAN IN HER SHOWER.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 15.
HANNIBAL
He stands naked in Bedelias shower, blood thinly streaming
from his various cuts and wounds as water washes them clean.
He twists the pressure valve closed until the water only drips.
Hannibal steps out of the shower, allowing the water to bead
off of him, before grabbing a towel to dry himself.
There is a familiar CLICK of a gun cocking and Hannibal
realizes he is no longer alone.
HANNIBALS POV -- THE SHADOWS
He slowly pushes the bathroom door open, casting light into
the bedroom and finally illuminating Bedelia sitting calmly,
holding a gun in one hand and a glass of wine in the other.
BEDELIAS POV -- HANNIBAL
He stands naked, silhouetted in the doorway.
HANNIBAL
May I get dressed?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You may.
Hannibal lets his towel drop and pulls on his underwear.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER (CONTD)
What have you done, Hannibal?
HANNIBAL
Ive taken off my person suit.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You let them see you.
HANNIBAL
I let them see enough.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How does that feel? Being seen?
Hannibal shrugs on his shirt and buttons it.
HANNIBAL
Youre not in a position to ask,
Dr. Du Maurier. You ended our
patient-psychiatrist relationship.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 16.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I lacked the appropriate skills to
continue your treatment.
HANNIBAL
I never found you to be lacking.
She studies him a moment, then:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im sorry I didnt leave you with a
suitable substitute for therapy.
(then)
Is Will Graham still alive?
Hannibal goes still. A quiet moment as he curbs his emotions.
HANNIBAL
Will Graham was not a suitable
substitute for therapy.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What was he?
HANNIBAL
Is this professional curiosity?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Almost entirely.
HANNIBAL
Do you trust me?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not entirely.
(then)
Trust is driven by an emotional
sense of what to do, and a very
conscious sense what not to do.
HANNIBAL
Are you taking into account my
beliefs about your intentions?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My intentions?
HANNIBAL
Human motivation can be little more
than lucid greed.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Greed and blind optimism.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 17.
HANNIBAL
Youre optimistic I wont kill you.
OFF Bedelia as she smoothly un-cocks the gun in her hand,
sets it aside and takes a sip of wine.
PRE-LAP A SUDDEN SQUEALING --
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
The hurly-burly of the Paris train about to depart. Lastminute PASSENGERS jumping aboard.
CONDUCTORS make their last calls.
Train doors SLAM.
The SIGNAL LIGHTS change.
The Paris train pulls out of the station slowly, revealing
Bedelia still sitting on her bench, watching it go...
CCTV -- looking down on Bedelia as she looks up at the
camera... looking anything but optimistic.
MUSIC RISES over her, taking us to --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - DAY
A darkened room. The music plays as Hannibal works on his
speech to the Studiolo, rapt and transported.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's face and hands, light flickering over
them as he works with slides and a projector.
Hannibal studies paintings and poems, writing notes, struck
by their power. Absorbed in a world of beauty and intellect.
Happy.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - CORRIDOR - DAY
ON HANNIBAL
Smiling, happy with life, as he walks down a vaulted
corridor, light and shadow alternating on his face as he
passes the windows...
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY/FOYER - DAY
He comes down a wide flight of stone stairs and into the foyer.
Bright sunlight shines in from the outside.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 18.
Hannibal walks toward it, the LENS FLARING as he becomes a
silhouette, his face going to darkness as the bright sunlight
of the doorframe envelopes him.
MATCH CUT TO:
EXT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - DAY
As Hannibal emerges onto the steps and looks across the busy
square.
ANTONY DIMMOND (O.S.)
Hello! Bonjour!
Hannibal does not realize this is directed at him, but as he
heads down the stairs, a hand grabs his arm.
ON HANNIBAL -- for a second his eyes threaten violence -- but
then he turns to see:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sporting stubble and wild hair. He seems absentminded, but
his eyes are sharp.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
We met in Paris a few months back.
Sorry, didn't mean to startle you,
but here I was and then, there you
were... I never forget a face...
HANNIBAL
Antony Dimmond.
Dimmond beams with pleasure.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Nice to be remembered.
HANNIBAL
You're hard to forget.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What are you doing in Florence?
Are you working with Roman?
HANNIBAL
Dr. Fell?
ANTONY DIMMOND
I heard he took an appointment at
the Capponi library.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 19.
ON HANNIBAL -- Dimmond is astute beneath his manner. Doesn't
miss much, it seems.
HANNIBAL
Yes, he's the new curator and
translator of the Palazzo Capponi.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Evidently, the last one eloped with
a woman or someone's money or both.
Hannibal is cool.
HANNIBAL
That's the commonly-held belief.
(then)
You just missed Roman.
Dimmond looks crestfallen.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Did I? Was hoping to take the piss.
Hannibal studies Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
Spare the piss for the time being.
If you're free, my wife and I would
love to have you for dinner.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 20.
ACT THREE
CLOSE ON A SNAIL
It moves at a snail's pace across a slick, fleshy surface.
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal it is one snail among dozens.
We are --
INT. COCHLEAR GARDEN - DARK (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK until it reveals a plump snail
feasting on the tip of a human finger.
The snails are crawling across the flesh of an arm resting in
a pool of wine marinade, also consumed by dozens of snails.
Fingers of the living reach INTO FRAME and pluck the plump
snail from the fingers of the marinating severed arm.
CLOSE ON A PLUMP SNAIL
CAMERA RACK FOCUSES onto Hannibal studying the snail as it
crawls across his fingers. He's dressed in a three-piece
plaid suit and an apron, harvesting his cochlear garden.
HANNIBAL
Listen.
He holds his breath for a moment and we hear dozens of little
RASP-LIKE TONGUES CHEWING on Gideon's severed arm.
Reveal Gideon.
He is listening, but not as impressed as Hannibal -- as it is
his flesh the snails are chewing. He sits on a motorized
wheelchair. His left arm is missing below the shoulder. The
fresh amputation wound is tightly dressed.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
They prefer eating in company.
Hannibal plucks snails from their moist roosts, collecting
them in an elegant glass cylinder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
I've kept cochlear gardens since I
was a young man, fattening snails on
herbs and vine leaves. Like all of
us, what they eat greatly influences
and enhances their flavor.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 21.
DR. GIDEON
When I'm not eating myself, you
wish me to be eating oysters.
Drinking sweet wines, snacking on
acorns. All to make me tastier?
HANNIBAL
Oh yes.
(re: the snails)
And you are making them tastier.
DR. GIDEON
And I you. Imagine what you must
taste like. Won't be long before
someone takes a bite out of you.
Hannibal notes Gideon's tone.
HANNIBAL
When agitated, sea snails produce a
purple dye. Its color won't fade.
Becomes brighter with weathering.
(then)
You're becoming brighter, Abel.
Dying hasn't dulled you one bit.
Gideon politely turns his attention back to the snails:
DR. GIDEON
The snails are certainly having a
lovely experience, fattened on me
in a red-wine marinade. They have
no idea they're going to be eaten.
(then)
We do.
CLOSE ON AN OYSTER SHELL
CAMERA crawls across its surface. A SHUCKING BLADE ENTERS
FRAME and splits the shell, at its hinge, with a twist,
removing the lid and revealing the oyster.
The oyster in its cup is placed on a bed of ice, SPINNING to
reveal it is joining a dozen oysters fanned across a platter.
A woman's hand ENTERS FRAME and takes an oyster.
CAMERA follows the oyster to reveal Bedelia. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Bedelia sits with Hannibal and Antony Dimmond at the table.
She is hiding her fears well, surrounded by a tray of oysters
and nuts. Hannibal at ease, a platter of meats between him and
Dimmond, who enjoys the hospitality, pours himself more wine.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 22.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(to Dimmond)
How well do you know the Fells?
She shoots the oyster in her imperceptibly-trembling hand.
ANTONY DIMMOND
As well as anybody. Which'd be not
really. Lydia a friend of yours?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not really.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I'd be surprised to hear she had
one. We share a mutual detestation.
She disapproves of my disapproval.
HANNIBAL
What do you disapprove of?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Roman, mainly. Lydia isn't quite
bright enough to see I'm just
intimidated. Roman does, of course.
How he loves to strike fear.
HANNIBAL
Dante wrote that fear is almost as
bitter as death.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Dante wasn't dead when he wrote it.
HANNIBAL
Are you traveling alone, Antony?
The question sends a shudder down Bedelia's spine.
ANTONY DIMMOND
It's the only way I travel.
HANNIBAL
Roman is speaking to the Studiolo
Friday. On Dante. You should come.
If Bedelia had been chewing, she would have choked.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sounds appropriately hellish.
Dimmond clocks Bedelia as she reaches for another oyster.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 23.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Are you avoiding meats?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I'm trying not to eat anything with
a central nervous system.
Dimmond calls out the food in her corner of the table:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Oysters, acorns and Marsala. That's
what ancient Romans would feed
animals to improve their flavor.
Bedelia does her best to hide her realization, steadies
herself. Hannibal watches her very closely as she digests.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My husband has quite a
sophisticated palette. He's
particular about how I taste.
Bedelia shoots another oyster back. Hannibal stares. An
uncomfortably-long beat as Dimmond considers that. Finally:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Is it that kind of party?
HANNIBAL
It is not that kind of party.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No, it really isn't.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Shame. You were both suddenly so
fascinating.
HARD CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Dimmond stands in the open doorway, shrugging on his coat as
Hannibal and Bedelia see him out.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Buonasera.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Buonasera.
HANNIBAL
Buonasera.
Hannibal closes the door as Dimmond walks away.
A moment, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 24.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(curious)
You let him go.
HANNIBAL
What would you have me do, Bedelia?
As Bedelia ponders Hannibal's question...
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
Bedelia walks down the street.
CAMERA follows her from across the street, keeping pace.
ANGLE ON ANTONY DIMMOND
Also walking the streets. Moving through the crowds,
following Bedelia.
INTERCUT their progress.
Bedelia moves with purpose. Resolved. Anxious.
Dimmond moves with greater freedom, not a care in the world.
Is he stalking her?
Bedelia crosses the street, narrowly avoiding a car that
screeches to a halt before it would have run her down.
Dimmond turns to the sound to see Bedelia disappearing into:
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
Navigating her way through the pastas and hams, Bedelia
approaches the clerk at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
As the clerk prepares the order, Antony strides across the
grocery store, directly toward Bedelia.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Florentines say Vera dal, with its
wealth of cheeses and truffles,
smells like the feet of God.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Hello, Mr. Dimmond.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 25.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I don't know if it's you, me or God,
but there's something in the air.
The clerk hands Bedelia her bag.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Dinner was lovely. I must confess
to a certain abstract curiosity
about your husband... Mrs. Fell.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(stares, then)
Good-bye, Mr. Dimmond.
Bedelia takes the bag and exits. Dimmond follows.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
CAMERA leads Bedelia out of Vera dal 1926 as Dimmond stands
in the doorway behind her, watching her go a moment, then:
ANTONY DIMMOND
I asked one of the scholars at the
Palazzo to point me in the
direction of Dr. Fell. He raised
one craggy old finger and pointed
it directly at your husband. I
thought the old codger made a
mistake, but there was no mistake.
Bedelia keeps walking. Dimmond quickens his pace to catch up.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Even in the teeth of evidence,
you're just going to walk away.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Those aren't the teeth you should
be concerned about.
Bedelia tries to control the tremble building inside her.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Where are Roman and Lydia?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I don't know.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Does your husband know?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 26.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He's not my husband. He is
something entirely Other.
ANTONY DIMMOND
The man is curating an exposition
of Atrocious Torture Instruments.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
The essence of the worst of the
human spirit is not found in the
iron maiden or the whetted edge.
Elemental ugliness, Mr. Dimmond, is
found in the faces of the crowd.
(then)
However you think you're going to
manipulate this situation to your
advantage, think again.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Bluebeard's wife. Secrets you're
not to know, yet sworn to keep.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
If I'm to be Bluebeard's wife, I
would prefer to be the last one.
(then)
Unless you believe you are beyond
harm, go to the police.
ANTONY DIMMOND
You want to be caught.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 27.
ACT FOUR
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PULLS BACK to find her lying flat on her back, covered
in blood. Shes breathing heavy, trembling.
There is a faint gurgling, choking sound that slowly begins to
register on her conscious mind through the sharp HUM of her
ringing ears and THUMPING of her circulatory system. She turns
and CAMERA reveals, lying on the floor next to her, is...
A DYING MAN
Hes dazed, choking on the blood overflowing from his mouth,
eyes rolling back until only the whites are visible.
He stiffens. After a long, horrible moment, he dies.
Bedelia stares, her jagged breath rattles in her ears, heart
racing. She sits up, unable to take her eyes off the dead
man lying next to her.
She raises a hand to brush the matted hair from her face, and
stops. Her hand looks like it has been dunked in a bucket of
blood up to her mid-forearm.
QUICK CUT TO:
MERE MOMENTS EARLIER
Bedelia straddles her PATIENT, holding him by the collar of
his shirt with one hand, the other hand is jammed down his
throat up to the mid-forearm. His eyes bulge.
BACK TO:
BEDELIA
She rises INTO FRAME, standing over her dead patient, and
CAMERA reveals Hannibal standing in the hallway behind her.
HANNIBAL
Bedelia.
Bedelia barely startles, turning to see Hannibal behind her.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He attacked me.
HANNIBAL
Is that your blood?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 28.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No.
Hannibal crouches next to the dead patient and examines his
hands -- theyre clean, free of blood or tissue.
HANNIBAL
You were... defending yourself?
A slow, guilty nod.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was reckless. Reckless violence
is a poor survival mechanism.
HANNIBAL
This wasnt reckless violence. It
was a controlled use of force.
Bedelia is haunted by the truth, tries to reassure herself:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not confused. My imagination
isnt filling in the gaps. I know
what happened here.
HANNIBAL
Do you?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He was your patient before he was
mine, Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
He died under your care.
(then)
Aggression can be an effective
means of maintaining order when
dealing with an unruly patient.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not an aggressive person.
HANNIBAL
Im sure you reacted with a level
of aggression that was uniquely
appropriate for this encounter.
(then)
But you werent defending yourself.
Hannibal stares, seeing right through her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 29.
A SERIES OF CLOSE SHOTS ON -- BEDELIA:
She unbuttons her bloody blouse, slipping it off her
shoulders and peeling it down her abdomen, exposing her
bloodstained undergarments. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - BATHROOM/BEDROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia is silhouetted in the doorway, much like Hannibal
was. CAMERA reveals Hannibal watching her from the shadows
of the bedroom, much like Bedelia was watching Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
I can help you tell the version of
events you want to be told. I can
help you, if you ask me to.
She opens the shower door and turns the nozzle. The
showerhead sprinkles and surges to life.
Bedelia raises her bloodstained hand to the shower stream,
allowing the red to wash away in rivulets down her arm.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
As Hannibals helpful grin starts to dawn...
ON BEDELIA
She stands under the shower, the water washes over her.
STREAMS OF WATER from the showerhead slow until they become
BEADS SUSPENDED IN MIDAIR above Bedelias upturned face.
MATCH CUT TO:
SCATTERED MOTES OF DUST
They float through the SLANT OF LIGHT cutting through the
darkness over Bedelias upturned face. We are now --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT (PRESENT)
Bedelia is beautifully coiffed and elegantly dressed. She
sits among the dragons of the Studiolo, dozens of the mostrenowned medieval and Renaissance scholars in the world.
They sit in rows of folding chairs, surrounded by DOZENS OF
TORTURE INSTRUMENTS, all in various states of restoration.
Hannibals voice creeps into Bedelias consciousness:
HANNIBAL (O.S.)
In accord with my own taste for the
pre-Renaissance...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 30.
The SLANT OF LIGHT over her head projects an IMAGE on a large
drop cloth suspended from the ceiling like a screen.
AN ILLUSTRATION OF SATAN
His three faces, half-immersed in ice, chewing on Brutus,
Cassius and Judas Iscariot, while weeping. Hannibal is a
dark figure pacing the aisles as he speaks:
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
...I present the case of Pietro
della Vigna, whose treachery earned
him a place in Dantes Hell.
ON HANNIBAL
He steps into the light, in front of the illustration of
Satan, its horns peeking out from behind his head.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
He was disgraced and blinded for
betraying his emperors trust.
He presses the switch in his palm and the illustration behind
him is now depicting Dante's nine levels of Hell.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dantes pilgrim finds him in the
seventh level of the Inferno,
reserved for suicides. Like Judas
Iscariot, he died by hanging.
Hannibal paces the aisle, slowly approaching Bedelia.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Judas and Pietro della Vigna are
linked in Dantes Inferno.
Hannibal places a gentle hand on Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal and hanging, then, linked
since antiquity, the image
appearing again and again in art.
An ART SLIDE appears on the drop cloth. Hannibal begins
pacing again, taking his hand off Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
This is the earliest-known
depiction of the Crucifixion,
carved on an ivory box in Gaul
about A.D. four hundred.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 31.
(MORE)
It includes the death by hanging of
Judas, his face upturned to the
branch that suspends him.
NEW ANGLE
A NEW SLIDE appears as CAMERA reveals Antony Dimmond quietly
listening to Hannibals lecture from the back of the room.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
On the doors of the Benevento
Cathedral, we see Judas hanging
with his bowels falling out.
Hannibal squeezes the remote and ANOTHER SLIDE appears.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
And here, from a fifteenth-century
edition of The Inferno, is Pietro
della Vignas body hanging from a
bleeding tree. I wont belabor the
parallels with Judas Iscariot.
ON BEDELIA
Her eyes wander until they find Mr. Dimmond listening
intently. Her face goes slack.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal, hanging, self-destruction.
Hannibal addresses Bedelia almost directly without singling
her out in the audience, all with a glance.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
"Io fei gibetto a me de le mie case."
(translating)
I make my own home be my gallows.
Bedelia averts her eyes just as Hannibal notices Dimmond.
His composure only falters for a brief moment.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Mr. Dimmond. Welcome. Please join
us. We were just about to discuss
the matter of chewing in Dante.
Dimmond smiles politely, then takes a seat. Hannibal glances
at Bedelia, but her chair is now vacant.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 32.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia hurries away from Hannibals presentation as APPLAUSE
erupts from the Studiolo.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT
The dry-yet-enthusiastic applause trickles to a stop as
Hannibal nods his thanks to the Studiolo as they stand and
filter out of the hall.
HANNIBAL
Thank you for your kind attention.
Sogliato is gathering his belongings as Hannibal approaches.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Would you say I secured my
position, Professor Sogliato?
SOGLIATO
The Studiolo seems satisfied.
Dimmond waltzes up, joining Hannibal and Sogliato.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Satisfied? That applause was
downright enthusiastic in its soft
and dusty way.
SOGLIATO
Dottor Fell is a friend of yours?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Ive only known him a short time.
Still, the tales I could tell.
SOGLIATO
Please do.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What kind of friend would I be?
SOGLIATO
What kind of friend, indeed.
(to Hannibal)
Dottore.
Without another word, Sogliato moves off, suppressing an eye
roll, joining the Studiolo as they exit. Dimmond eyes the
various torture instruments surrounding them:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 33.
ANTONY DIMMOND
An exposition of Atrocious Torture
Instruments appeals to connoisseurs
of the very worst in mankind.
HANNIBAL
Now that ceaseless exposure has
calloused us to the lewd and the
vulgar, it is instructive to see
what still seems wicked to us.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What still slaps the clammy flab of
our submissive consciousness hard
enough to get our attention?
HANNIBAL
What wickedness has your attention,
Mr. Dimmond?
Hannibal and Dimmond circle a BREAKING WHEEL as they assess
each others intentions.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Yours, Dr. Fell. I have no
delusions of morality; if I had, I
wouldve gone to la polizia. (then)
Im curious what fate befell Dr.
Fell to see you here in his stead.
Hannibal studies Mr. Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
You may have to strap me to the
breaking wheel to loosen my tongue.
ANTONY DIMMOND
No torture was required to loosen
your wife/not-your-wifes tongue.
(off Hannibal's look)
She overestimated my affection for
the genuine Dr. Fell. Clearly, you
found him as distasteful as I did.
HANNIBAL
On the contrary.
ANTONY DIMMOND
We can twist ourselves into all
manner of uncomfortable positions
just to maintain appearances, with
or without a breaking wheel.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 34.
HANNIBAL
Are you here to twist me into an
uncomfortable position?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Im here to help you untwist... to
our mutual benefit.
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia has donned a coat and is carrying a small suitcase,
hurrying toward the door. She reaches for the doorknob and
stops short. Its starting to turn...
The door opens and Hannibal ushers Antony Dimmond inside. He
averts his eyes away from Bedelias gaze.
POV FROM THE HALL
As Hannibal slowly shuts the door on anyones escape.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 35.
ACT FIVE
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER -- SLOW MOTION
VIOLENT SHADOWS dance across her face. We are in the fog of
Bedelias experience, her hearing numbed by the wash of her
circulatory system and a HIGH-PITCHED RINGING intermittently
broken by STACCATO BURSTS of a terrified heart.
CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BACK
The violent shadows continue their SLOW DANCE across Bedelia
and the wall behind her as Hannibal brutally and efficiently
dispatches Antony Dimmond to the afterlife. Her suitcase is
next to her, her coat draped over her chair. We are --
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - NIGHT
Bedelia is unflinching despite jagged breaths rattling at the
back of her throat. Hannibal stands over Dimmonds corpse.
HANNIBAL
Observe or participate.
The words dont immediately land with Bedelia, still stunned
at what she has witnessed. She slowly looks at Hannibal:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What?
HANNIBAL
Are you, in this very moment,
observing or participating?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Observing.
The corners of Hannibals lips curl ever so slightly.
HANNIBAL
If you can see me, I can see you.
Hannibal leans over Dimmonds broken corpse in a FRAME
reminiscent of him leaning over Bedelias dead patient.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
You say youre observing, but this,
this is participation, Bedelia.
(off her look)
Did you know what he would do when
you asked him to help you? Id
prefer you answer honestly.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 36.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
This always goes better if one of
us is honest.
HANNIBAL
Have you been honest with yourself?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was curious.
HANNIBAL
You were curious what would happen.
You were curious what Mr. Dimmond
would do. What I would do.
(then)
Did you anticipate our thoughts?
Counter-thoughts? Rationalizations?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes.
HANNIBAL
(re: Dimmonds body)
Is this what you expected?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(a moment, then)
Yes.
HANNIBAL
Thats participation.
Hannibal crosses to Bedelias suitcase, picking it up.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Whatve you gotten yourself into,
Bedelia?
(off her silence)
Shall I hang up your coat?
Bedelia absently hands him her coat. Hannibal moves into the
bedroom. Through the open door we can see him place
Bedelias suitcase on the bed and begin to unpack it.
OFF Bedelia staring at Mr. Dimmonds body...
CLOSE ON A BEAUTIFUL VINTAGE LEATHER STEAMER TRUNK
CAMERA reveals TWO PORTERS carry the trunk toward...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 37.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - PLATFORM - DAY
Hannibal ENTERS FRAME behind the two porters and the trunk en
route to the awaiting TRAIN CAR. Dressed in an elegant travel
coat, he strikes a dashing figure as he boards the train.
INT. TRAIN CAR - DAY
Hannibal shares a private compartment with his steamer trunk.
As CAMERA PUSHES IN, Hannibals gaze drifts to the window as
a stunning Italian landscape blurs past...
SNAILS
They topple into a hot pan, a brandy flamb erupts around
them. As the fire starts to fade, a shower of white wine
douses the flame and we EXTINGUISH TO BLACK.
CAMERA PULLS OUT OF A LARGE AFRICAN SNAIL SHELL
The tiny snails from the cochlear garden are tumbling out
onto the dinner table, beautifully cooked. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTERS HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK to reveal Hannibal and Gideon
at the table, flanking the large snail shell. Surrounding
the mouth of the shell are various oysters in the half-shell.
HANNIBAL
Would you rather I extended you the
same kindness as the escargot?
DR. GIDEON
Eating me without my knowledge? I
find knowing to be much more
powerful than not knowing. Why do
you think I'm allowing this?
Hannibal studies his dinner companion, appreciating his bite.
HANNIBAL
Why do you think I'm allowing this?
DR. GIDEON
Snails aren't the only creatures
who prefer to eat in company.
Gideon forks a snail in its shell, which is secured
decoratively so he can use one arm, and pops it in his mouth.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
I'm fascinated to know how you will
feel when all this... happens to you.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 38.
EXT. PALERMO - NORMAN PALACE - DAWN
Time-lapse establishing.
INT. NORMAN CHAPEL - DAWN
Ornate, inspiring and severe.
Morning light glances down from the stained-glass windows,
casting colored pools and dense shadows.
CAMERA prowls the aisles between the rows of pews and finds A
GARGANTUAN HUMAN HEART -- not the organ itself, but a
representation, skillfully molded from the CORPSE OF ANTONY
DIMMOND.
The torso is tucked into a fetal position, hands and feet
have been cut off mid-forearm/mid-shin. The arms and legs
broken and bent to mimic the ventricles and aorta. Dimmonds
head has been removed.
The dark red blood streaking the body and the pallor of the
dead skin create the purplish hues of a recently-removed organ.
The heart is pierced by three swords pushed through the
body at angles, to both secure the organic sculpture in place
and provide a tripod to lift it from the ground.
It almost appears to be a horrifying brazier awaiting flame.
As the sun rises, the multicolored shafts of light beaming
through the stained-glass windows spotlight Hannibals
creation in all its glory...
OFF the tableau, placed amid the gorgeous light, in a
monument to God and mans adulation of him, we...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 39.
Antipasto
Written by
Bryan Fuller
&
Steve Lightfoot
Directed by
Vincenzo Natali
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #301 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2015 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot 
HANNIBAL
"Antipasto"
TEASER
BLACK
A PANNING LIGHT reveals a HUMAN FACE frozen in torment. Then
a HAND grasping for freedom. Our light now reveals the
TORSO, lean and stretched in agony.
WIDER -- our light casts across a vertical group of HUMAN
BODIES, and as we move over it, the bodies ANIMATE, writhing
in torment.
REVERSE WIDE -- to blackness, and our light is now a
PINPOINT. Slowly enlarging as it comes toward us. And a LOW
DRONE accompanies it, indistinct, but unsettling.
The circle of light grows, and MORPHS into an EYE,
unblinking, as our drone increases, and then our eye again
MORPHS, becoming the SPINNING FRONT WHEEL of a motorcycle.
CLOSE ON A GLOVED HAND as it works the throttle, and the
drone PITCHES HIGHER as the bike changes gear.
ON OUR TORTURED HUMAN FORMS as they writhe against one another
-- and then, IMAGE IS SPLIT by the motorcycle's front wheel as
it splashes through the PUDDLE in which they were reflected.
CLOSE ON WATER DROPLETS as they are launched into the air,
like bubbles, a tortured soul reflecting, trapped, in each as
they spin through the air and turn BLOOD RED.
CLOSE ON THE REFLECTIVE BLACK VISOR of our bike's RIDER --
Figures writhe within the margins of the glass.
REVERSE -- WIDE -- behind the motorbike, now DWARFED IN FRAME
as it rides toward an IMMENSE PAIR OF GATES -- Rodin's Gates
of Hell, the sculpted bodies, caught in torment, adorning
each side.
REVERSE AGAIN -- and now we are back on our rider's visor --
the gates fill the visor, and as the rider gets closer, we
watch in the reflection as the gates BEGIN TO OPEN --
And through the opening space we see PARIS OPENING UP BEYOND.
The bike speeds through the gates, sending the tortured
figures into a new frenzy, and then he is through and the
reflection is now the frenzy of a PARIS NIGHT STREET...
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
The motorcycle -- a TRIUMPH BONNEVILLE -- swerves and cuts
between two cars like a knife through butter.
The Bonneville dances between lanes as the rider throws his
weight from side to side.
We enjoy his progress; his skill and prowess as he owns the
road.
CLOSE ON the reflective visor of his helmet, the world beyond
zooming by, reflected in the black glass.
His gloved hands on the throttle; his foot as it kicks the
powerful bike through the gears.
The Bonneville BRAKES to a sudden halt. The rider gets off.
Dressed in Belstaff. He removes the helmet. For a brief
second, those bodies writhe across it again -- there, and then
gone -- and we see the rider now: it is HANNIBAL LECTER.
As we haven't seen him before. Looser, longer hair; a little
rougher; a man free of responsibilities.
INT. PARIS PARTY VENUE - NIGHT
PALE YELLOW LIQUID fizzes into a glass flute. A hand takes the
champagne and moves from a bar, and we go with it, revealing --
A PARTY CROWD -- under a banner: "Bon Voyage, Roman Fell."
It is a well-heeled leaving party for DR. ROMAN FELL, a tall,
lean man of 50, sporting a fine academic's beard. He holds
court in the center of the room. He loves the attention of a
crowd of young acolytes and well-wishers.
We move through the throng, toward him. As people part in front
of us, we REVERSE to reveal this is Hannibal Lecter's POV.
His eyes fixed on Roman Fell.
STAY ON Hannibal as he moves lithely through the crowd,
bodies between him and us, he is there and then gone -- like
a tiger moving through the long grass. His eyes never
leaving his prey. Appraising, calculating...
A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN crosses his path, makes eye contact.
Hannibal returns it. Raises his glass.
She smiles, but Hannibal inclines his head and passes on the
invitation to linger. Steps around her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 2.
ANTONY DIMMOND, 40s, tall, lean, somewhat louche-looking --
his clothes expensive, but old and worn -- darts suddenly at
a WAITRESS with a tray of champagne, snaffles two glasses.
He tosses one back quickly, then notices Hannibal noticing.
ANTONY DIMMOND
(re: his two glasses)
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
(then)
Antony Dimmond. I'd offer a hand,
but--
HANNIBAL
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Do you know Roman well?
Dimmond clocks Hannibal's eyes wandering back toward Dr. Fell
amid a circle of people.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
You were staring with the thinlyveiled disdain of a man who does.
I was his TA at Cambridge. He was
insufferable even then.
Dimmond finishes the second flute of champagne and puts it on a
passing tray. Grabs two more and hands Hannibal one of them.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Have you read his books? They're
terrible. You know they're
terrible, but you're too polite to
say. Blink if you agree.
(off his blink)
See.
Dimmond pulls a weathered paperback from his coat pocket.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
That doesn't stop him squatting
over a keyboard and depositing a
fresh one every six to eight
months. It has taken me six to
eight months to write one line.
HANNIBAL
Why?
Dimmond stares at Hannibal a moment, as if the answer is
abundantly clear, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 3.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Poetry is hard. Was too hard for
Roman. Easier for him to slide into
academia and dissect the efforts of
others than stand by his own words.
HANNIBAL
One can appreciate another's words
without dissecting them. Though,
on occasion, dissection is the only
thing that will do.
OFF Hannibal's glance in Dr. Fell's direction...
CUT TO:
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
Dr. Roman Fell walks home, merrily drunk, excited by the
prospect of his new adventure.
Behind him, our Bonneville idles slowly across the street.
As Hannibal is putting on his helmet:
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir.
Dr. Fell is reflected in the black maw of Hannibal's visor as
Hannibal slowly follows him, then passes him by. CAMERA
follows Dr. Fell as Hannibal's Bonneville speeds away.
EXT./INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
Dr. Fell enters his building and heads up the stairs. He
stops short when he sees Hannibal standing outside his door.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir?
CUT TO:
INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
BLOOD RED WINE SPLASHES up the sides of a glass.
Hands place an OPERA RECORD on a turntable. CLOSE ON the
needle as it drops.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 4.
BUTTER melts in a pan.
LIVER is tossed in with a sizzle... a dash of brandy is added
and flares into flame.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's knife and fork as it slices through the
liver on his plate.
A blush of blood STAINS the juices on the plate. He brings
it to his lips. Chews.
Delicious.
CUT TO:
PUSH IN OMINOUSLY
On the inside of the closed apartment door.
CLOSER and CLOSER till the handle turns and it opens toward
us -- and a stylishly-dressed woman enters.
MRS. FELL!
She hears the opera and smiles.
Moves toward the dining room.
She halts in the doorway.
CAMERA moves around her to register the cause of her confusion.
MRS. FELL'S POV
Hannibal Lecter sits at the table, linen and cutlery
immaculately placed. Savoring his food, a nice Bordeaux and
the music.
Hannibal smiles up at her.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 5.
ACT ONE
DARKNESS
A REFLECTIVE SHAPE moves toward CAMERA. It is --
A LARGE SILVER DOME.
It covers a sizeable serving platter that is moving through a
darkened room until, finally, the REFLECTION OF ABEL GIDEON
bows across its surface. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
ABEL GIDEON sits at the beautifully-appointed table; he has a
drip in one arm and a chest monitor. Under the table, we see
that Gideon is now missing both legs at the thigh. (NOTE:
This takes place between Eps. #206 and 207.)
The silver dome turns and Gideon watches his reflection SLIDE
DOWN the length of the platter. The platter is lifted from
the sidecar and placed in the middle of the dinner table.
The large silver dome rises off the platter as if by unseen
hands floating somewhere in the darkness. Underneath the
dome and further unveiled by a SILKY CLOUD OF SMOKE:
GIDEON'S LEG
From hip to ankle, beautifully roasted with SUGAR CANE QUILLS
sticking out of the flesh in a pleasing grid pattern. It's
mounted on a plank, like a long whole ham.
DR. GIDEON
You really are the Devil.
Certainly seem to enjoy it. You
have a click in your hoof.
FROM GIDEON'S POV -- HANNIBAL
He appears to MATERIALIZE out of the THINNING MIST rising off
the bed of smoking sprigs of thyme.
HANNIBAL
The Devil has been a yoke on the
neck of humanity since we first
began to think and dream.
(then)
I for a much shorter time.
Gideon takes a deep, appreciative breath.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 6.
DR. GIDEON
You admit the yoke.
(then)
Smells like candy apples. And
thyme. You smoked me in thyme.
HANNIBAL
Smoked. Glazed. Slow-cooked.
Served on a sugar cane quill. You
will be falling off the bone.
Hannibal plucks a sugar cane quill, pulling out a MEDALLION
OF MEAT from Gideon's severed leg, like a Popsicle stick, and
placing it on his guest's plate.
DR. GIDEON
Well, of course.
(then)
And with these rarified dishes you
so thoughtfully prepare...
(then)
...do we all taste different?
HANNIBAL
Everyone has their flavor.
Gideon's eyes narrow, not giving Hannibal the satisfaction of
seeing him impressed one way or another.
DR. GIDEON
Cannibalism was standard behavior
among our ancestors. Missing link
is only missing because we ate him.
HANNIBAL
This isn't cannibalism, Abel. It's
only cannibalism if we're equals.
DR. GIDEON
It's only cannibalism if you eat
me. But you feel this is just the
natural order of things? Everybody
gets et?
HANNIBAL
Be he fat or be he lean.
DR. GIDEON
My last leg standing across the
table from me, and I still wrestle
with the urges to fight or flee.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 7.
HANNIBAL
It's called "terminal restlessness."
The body fills with adrenaline and
feels compelled to go-go-go.
DR. GIDEON
"Go-go-go"? I've already got up
and gone. This is posthumous.
HANNIBAL
You're not dead yet, Abel. You
still have to eat.
DR. GIDEON
No, I don't.
Gideon takes a bite of the medallion of meat before him.
It's truly something special, but once again, he doesn't give
Hannibal the satisfaction. Hannibal smiles, regardless.
Gideon is about to take another bite, but pauses to glance
around the beautifully-appointed room and at his devilish host.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
At this point, there is absolutely
nothing I have to do. But I don't
want to spoil the fairy tale, do I?
You and your gingerbread house.
HANNIBAL
Let it be a fairy tale, then.
(then)
Once upon a time...
OFF Hannibal...
GRAND MUSIC begins to rise, taking us to --
INT. FLORENCE BALLROOM - NIGHT
A dazzlingly-dressed couple as they sweep ACROSS FRAME in a
stylish waltz.
It could be a scene from Cinderella's dreams... The glitter
of jewelry and champagne. The dash of black tie and
ballgowns; the dance floor filled with couples sweeping in
graceful patterns across it.
CAMERA moves through the dancing figures to find a
particularly-elegant couple and stays with them as they swoop
across the floor... They waltz around CAMERA, faces hidden
from us as they move in perfect union, until the music comes
to an end and the man dips his partner low to the ground --
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 8.
Revealing Hannibal and a stunning BEDELIA DU MAURIER... a
prince and his princess. He smiles down at her, both
somewhat breathless.
A beat, and then he pulls her back to him.
HANNIBAL
Bellissima.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
Hannibal snags them both champagne off a passing tray.
SOGLIATO (O.S.)
Dr. Fell, I hope you translate as
well as you waltz.
SOGLIATO is a smooth, oily Italian, late 30s. Impeccably
dressed. An academic who wears his ego like armor. Sogliato
kisses Bedelia's hand and then shakes Hannibal's. He stands
with SIGNOR and SIGNORA ALBIZZI -- president of the museum's
governing board.
SIGNOR ALBIZZI
Our new appointee was confirmed by
the board after close questioning.
SOGLIATO
You've examined him in medieval
Italian, and I will not deny his
language is admirable.
Bedelia watches this exchange. Intrigued. Aware others in
the crowd are observing. As is Sogliato...
HANNIBAL
Thank you.
SOGLIATO
For a straniero.
Sogliato smiles at the audience now ear-wigging shamelessly.
Bedelia is watching Hannibal, the way his eyes go dead for a
second at the insult before he smiles.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Are you familiar with the
personalities of pre-Renaissance
Florence? I think not. (a smile for Bedelia)
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 9.
(MORE)
Dr. Fell might hold in his hand --
in his non-Italian hand -- a note
from Dante Alighieri himself. Would
he recognize it? I think not.
Bedelia intercedes:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato, would you do me
the honor of a dance?
Bedelia offers her arm. Keen to lead him away. Hannibal
noting her intention. As they turn away:
HANNIBAL "Allegro mi sembrava Amor tenendo /
meo core in mano, e ne le braccia
avea / madonna involta in un drappo
dormendo. / Poi la svegliava, e
d'esto core ardendo / lei paventosa
umilmente pascea; / appreso gir lo
ne vedea piangendo."
Some of those listening applaud loudly at this stirring
recital. Sogliato hates it. Bedelia smiles at Hannibal.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dante's first sonnet. It
fascinated Cavalcanti. The eating
of the heart is a powerful image.
Hannibal doesn't have to be smug; Signor Albizzi is smug for
him. Off that smugness:
SOGLIATO
If he's such an expert on Dante,
let him lecture on Dante, to the
Studiolo. Let him face them.
(then)
Extempore.
The reaction of the crowd says this is a strong challenge.
Hannibal merely inclines his head.
HANNIBAL
I'm happy to sing for my supper.
He holds Sogliato's gaze. Battle met.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato.
Bedelia looks to Sogliato who takes her hand to dance.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 10.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Hannibal smiles at Bedelia who doesn't return his smile.
EXT. FLORENCE - NIGHT
CAMERA moves across the city as the evening gathers and the
streets empty, the fan pattern of the cobbles shining in a
drizzle. CAMERA finds A SILHOUETTED MAN on a balcony.
CLOSE ON HANNIBAL
As we watch, his face becomes washed with amber, as if under
liquid, flowing and indistinct.
We are now --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
STAY ON this Hannibal in amber, framed within the proscenium
arch of his balcony, looking out over Florence...
HANNIBAL
We are among the palaces built six
hundred years ago by the merchant
princes, the kingmakers and
connivers of Renaissance Florence.
...until Bedelia reaches for the glass of brandy he is
offering her and breaks the illusion.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
As connivers of modern Florence.
Hannibal looks out over the city, considering its romance.
HANNIBAL
I've found a peace here that I
would preserve. I've killed hardly
anybody during our residence.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You created the vacancy at the
Palazzo Capponi by removing the
former curator.
HANNIBAL
A simple process requiring a few
seconds' work on the old man and a
modest outlay for two bags of cement.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You no longer have ethical
problems, Hannibal. You have
aesthetical ones.
(re: her zipper)
Could you?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 11.
She turns and Hannibal stands behind her and slowly unzips
her dress, revealing her bare back.
HANNIBAL
Ethics become aesthetics.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You seem more concerned with making
appearances than maintaining them.
HANNIBAL
If this is about my position at the
Palazzo, once the path was cleared,
I won the job fairly. On my merits.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes, even the most-contentious
Florentines can't resist the verse
of Dante ringing off frescoed walls.
HANNIBAL
One contentious Florentine can.
Bedelia crosses into:
INT. HANNIBAL'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY/BEDELIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
A large, freestanding CAST-IRON BATH in there. Bedelia
enters and turns the ornate taps. Water thunders out. She
turns to see Hannibal in the doorway.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Have you given serious thought to
eating Professor Sogliato?
HANNIBAL
My killing Sogliato now would not
preserve the peace.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Your peace is without morality.
HANNIBAL
Morality doesn't exist. Only morale.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How you feel today.
HANNIBAL
How do you feel today?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I still believe I'm in conscious
control of my actions. Given your
history, that's a good day.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 12.
OFF Bedelia's soft, polite smile...
CLOSE ON A RUSHING TAP
It is turned off and the steaming torrent becomes a DRIP. The
drip sends RINGS spreading to the deep sides of the bathtub.
Bedelia lies back and IMMERSES herself under the water. The
surface six inches from her mouth. Like Ophelia lying under
the surface of the lake... HOLDING HER BREATH -- A SINGLE
BUBBLE escapes her lips and slowly pops on the surface. She
stares upward. Slowly, her eyes close.
Around her, the water DARKENS TO BLACK, as if the bottom of
the bath has fallen away to reveal an ENDLESS DEPTH. And now
Bedelia is SLOWLY SINKING, horizontally sliding downward into
the Stygian dark...
BEDELIA'S POV -- amid the darkness, GNARLED ROOTS clamber
around one another, slick and wet amid the water...
LOWER and LOWER she sinks, beyond this level, into the next.
Until finally she comes to the BOTTOM and her body comes to
rest in a black silt that RISES AROUND HER in SWIRLS and
WISPS, as if welcoming her into its grasp.
ON BEDELIA'S CLOSED EYES
Another SOLITARY BUBBLE rises from her lips, and we RISE AWAY
from her to follow its progress.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
An area of ARTISAN FOOD STORES -- the streets thronged with
shoppers. CAMERA finds Bedelia among them, moving through
the crowd, a distant focus in her eyes.
CLOSE ON BEDELIA
A POLICE CONSTABLE comes down the street toward her. He
smiles, tips his hat to the beautiful lady. She nods, her
smile fading the moment he passes.
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
An elegant Florentine fine grocer filled with fine wines and
exotic cheeses. Bedelia approaches the CLERK at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
CUT TO:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 13.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
Bedelia sits on a bench, her shopping bag from Vera dal 1926
next to her. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal...
...she sits on the platform of a train station.
A CCTV camera sits above her, covering the length of the
platform. Bedelia looks up at it and then back to the TRAIN
which is about to depart. Its open carriage doors are an
invitation... Will she take it?
OFF Bedelia...
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 14.
ACT TWO
EXT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PUSHES IN as headlights roll up the driveway and
across the siding of the house as a car approaches.
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - FOYER/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA moves through the darkened hall until FRAMING AN
EXTREME CLOSE-UP ON THE FRONT DOORKNOB.
The SOUND OF A KEY in the door --
Breaks the quiet. LIGHT SPILLS in as the door opens.
Bedelia enters.
She turns to the living room as CAMERA reveals almost every
piece of her furniture is beneath a drop cloth, protected
against dust for an indefinite period of time -- just as she
left it before she fled Hannibal and the FBI.
(NOTE: Bedelia has just come from the FBIs interrogation
room, as seen in Ep. #212, Tome-wan.)
Bedelia takes in the shroud of the chairs, walking the rooms
periphery, searching for some sense of herself. She pauses.
AN EMPTY CHAIR
Where she left a glass-cut perfume bottle for Hannibal weeks
earlier. Its gone. She considers its absence, then:
CLOSE ON THE SPIKE OF A CORKSCREW
It TWISTS through the cork in a bottle of wine. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia opens the bottle of wine and pours herself a glass.
She reacts, twists the bottle upward to stem the flow. One
last drop of wine falls into the glass and she listens.
CAMERA FOLLOWS BEDELIA
She moves into the hall as a distinct sound grows louder and
louder until she recognizes it. The shower is running.
INT. BEDELIA'S HOUSE - BEDROOM/BATHROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
She moves into her bedroom, toward the open door of her
bathroom through which she can see bloody clothes strewn
across the floor and a MAN IN HER SHOWER.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 15.
HANNIBAL
He stands naked in Bedelias shower, blood thinly streaming
from his various cuts and wounds as water washes them clean.
He twists the pressure valve closed until the water only drips.
Hannibal steps out of the shower, allowing the water to bead
off of him, before grabbing a towel to dry himself.
There is a familiar CLICK of a gun cocking and Hannibal
realizes he is no longer alone.
HANNIBALS POV -- THE SHADOWS
He slowly pushes the bathroom door open, casting light into
the bedroom and finally illuminating Bedelia sitting calmly,
holding a gun in one hand and a glass of wine in the other.
BEDELIAS POV -- HANNIBAL
He stands naked, silhouetted in the doorway.
HANNIBAL
May I get dressed?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You may.
Hannibal lets his towel drop and pulls on his underwear.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER (CONTD)
What have you done, Hannibal?
HANNIBAL
Ive taken off my person suit.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You let them see you.
HANNIBAL
I let them see enough.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How does that feel? Being seen?
Hannibal shrugs on his shirt and buttons it.
HANNIBAL
Youre not in a position to ask,
Dr. Du Maurier. You ended our
patient-psychiatrist relationship.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 16.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I lacked the appropriate skills to
continue your treatment.
HANNIBAL
I never found you to be lacking.
She studies him a moment, then:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im sorry I didnt leave you with a
suitable substitute for therapy.
(then)
Is Will Graham still alive?
Hannibal goes still. A quiet moment as he curbs his emotions.
HANNIBAL
Will Graham was not a suitable
substitute for therapy.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What was he?
HANNIBAL
Is this professional curiosity?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Almost entirely.
HANNIBAL
Do you trust me?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not entirely.
(then)
Trust is driven by an emotional
sense of what to do, and a very
conscious sense what not to do.
HANNIBAL
Are you taking into account my
beliefs about your intentions?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My intentions?
HANNIBAL
Human motivation can be little more
than lucid greed.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Greed and blind optimism.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 17.
HANNIBAL
Youre optimistic I wont kill you.
OFF Bedelia as she smoothly un-cocks the gun in her hand,
sets it aside and takes a sip of wine.
PRE-LAP A SUDDEN SQUEALING --
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
The hurly-burly of the Paris train about to depart. Lastminute PASSENGERS jumping aboard.
CONDUCTORS make their last calls.
Train doors SLAM.
The SIGNAL LIGHTS change.
The Paris train pulls out of the station slowly, revealing
Bedelia still sitting on her bench, watching it go...
CCTV -- looking down on Bedelia as she looks up at the
camera... looking anything but optimistic.
MUSIC RISES over her, taking us to --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - DAY
A darkened room. The music plays as Hannibal works on his
speech to the Studiolo, rapt and transported.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's face and hands, light flickering over
them as he works with slides and a projector.
Hannibal studies paintings and poems, writing notes, struck
by their power. Absorbed in a world of beauty and intellect.
Happy.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - CORRIDOR - DAY
ON HANNIBAL
Smiling, happy with life, as he walks down a vaulted
corridor, light and shadow alternating on his face as he
passes the windows...
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY/FOYER - DAY
He comes down a wide flight of stone stairs and into the foyer.
Bright sunlight shines in from the outside.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 18.
Hannibal walks toward it, the LENS FLARING as he becomes a
silhouette, his face going to darkness as the bright sunlight
of the doorframe envelopes him.
MATCH CUT TO:
EXT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - DAY
As Hannibal emerges onto the steps and looks across the busy
square.
ANTONY DIMMOND (O.S.)
Hello! Bonjour!
Hannibal does not realize this is directed at him, but as he
heads down the stairs, a hand grabs his arm.
ON HANNIBAL -- for a second his eyes threaten violence -- but
then he turns to see:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sporting stubble and wild hair. He seems absentminded, but
his eyes are sharp.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
We met in Paris a few months back.
Sorry, didn't mean to startle you,
but here I was and then, there you
were... I never forget a face...
HANNIBAL
Antony Dimmond.
Dimmond beams with pleasure.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Nice to be remembered.
HANNIBAL
You're hard to forget.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What are you doing in Florence?
Are you working with Roman?
HANNIBAL
Dr. Fell?
ANTONY DIMMOND
I heard he took an appointment at
the Capponi library.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 19.
ON HANNIBAL -- Dimmond is astute beneath his manner. Doesn't
miss much, it seems.
HANNIBAL
Yes, he's the new curator and
translator of the Palazzo Capponi.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Evidently, the last one eloped with
a woman or someone's money or both.
Hannibal is cool.
HANNIBAL
That's the commonly-held belief.
(then)
You just missed Roman.
Dimmond looks crestfallen.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Did I? Was hoping to take the piss.
Hannibal studies Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
Spare the piss for the time being.
If you're free, my wife and I would
love to have you for dinner.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 20.
ACT THREE
CLOSE ON A SNAIL
It moves at a snail's pace across a slick, fleshy surface.
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal it is one snail among dozens.
We are --
INT. COCHLEAR GARDEN - DARK (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK until it reveals a plump snail
feasting on the tip of a human finger.
The snails are crawling across the flesh of an arm resting in
a pool of wine marinade, also consumed by dozens of snails.
Fingers of the living reach INTO FRAME and pluck the plump
snail from the fingers of the marinating severed arm.
CLOSE ON A PLUMP SNAIL
CAMERA RACK FOCUSES onto Hannibal studying the snail as it
crawls across his fingers. He's dressed in a three-piece
plaid suit and an apron, harvesting his cochlear garden.
HANNIBAL
Listen.
He holds his breath for a moment and we hear dozens of little
RASP-LIKE TONGUES CHEWING on Gideon's severed arm.
Reveal Gideon.
He is listening, but not as impressed as Hannibal -- as it is
his flesh the snails are chewing. He sits on a motorized
wheelchair. His left arm is missing below the shoulder. The
fresh amputation wound is tightly dressed.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
They prefer eating in company.
Hannibal plucks snails from their moist roosts, collecting
them in an elegant glass cylinder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
I've kept cochlear gardens since I
was a young man, fattening snails on
herbs and vine leaves. Like all of
us, what they eat greatly influences
and enhances their flavor.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 21.
DR. GIDEON
When I'm not eating myself, you
wish me to be eating oysters.
Drinking sweet wines, snacking on
acorns. All to make me tastier?
HANNIBAL
Oh yes.
(re: the snails)
And you are making them tastier.
DR. GIDEON
And I you. Imagine what you must
taste like. Won't be long before
someone takes a bite out of you.
Hannibal notes Gideon's tone.
HANNIBAL
When agitated, sea snails produce a
purple dye. Its color won't fade.
Becomes brighter with weathering.
(then)
You're becoming brighter, Abel.
Dying hasn't dulled you one bit.
Gideon politely turns his attention back to the snails:
DR. GIDEON
The snails are certainly having a
lovely experience, fattened on me
in a red-wine marinade. They have
no idea they're going to be eaten.
(then)
We do.
CLOSE ON AN OYSTER SHELL
CAMERA crawls across its surface. A SHUCKING BLADE ENTERS
FRAME and splits the shell, at its hinge, with a twist,
removing the lid and revealing the oyster.
The oyster in its cup is placed on a bed of ice, SPINNING to
reveal it is joining a dozen oysters fanned across a platter.
A woman's hand ENTERS FRAME and takes an oyster.
CAMERA follows the oyster to reveal Bedelia. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Bedelia sits with Hannibal and Antony Dimmond at the table.
She is hiding her fears well, surrounded by a tray of oysters
and nuts. Hannibal at ease, a platter of meats between him and
Dimmond, who enjoys the hospitality, pours himself more wine.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 22.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(to Dimmond)
How well do you know the Fells?
She shoots the oyster in her imperceptibly-trembling hand.
ANTONY DIMMOND
As well as anybody. Which'd be not
really. Lydia a friend of yours?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not really.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I'd be surprised to hear she had
one. We share a mutual detestation.
She disapproves of my disapproval.
HANNIBAL
What do you disapprove of?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Roman, mainly. Lydia isn't quite
bright enough to see I'm just
intimidated. Roman does, of course.
How he loves to strike fear.
HANNIBAL
Dante wrote that fear is almost as
bitter as death.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Dante wasn't dead when he wrote it.
HANNIBAL
Are you traveling alone, Antony?
The question sends a shudder down Bedelia's spine.
ANTONY DIMMOND
It's the only way I travel.
HANNIBAL
Roman is speaking to the Studiolo
Friday. On Dante. You should come.
If Bedelia had been chewing, she would have choked.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sounds appropriately hellish.
Dimmond clocks Bedelia as she reaches for another oyster.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 23.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Are you avoiding meats?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I'm trying not to eat anything with
a central nervous system.
Dimmond calls out the food in her corner of the table:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Oysters, acorns and Marsala. That's
what ancient Romans would feed
animals to improve their flavor.
Bedelia does her best to hide her realization, steadies
herself. Hannibal watches her very closely as she digests.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My husband has quite a
sophisticated palette. He's
particular about how I taste.
Bedelia shoots another oyster back. Hannibal stares. An
uncomfortably-long beat as Dimmond considers that. Finally:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Is it that kind of party?
HANNIBAL
It is not that kind of party.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No, it really isn't.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Shame. You were both suddenly so
fascinating.
HARD CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Dimmond stands in the open doorway, shrugging on his coat as
Hannibal and Bedelia see him out.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Buonasera.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Buonasera.
HANNIBAL
Buonasera.
Hannibal closes the door as Dimmond walks away.
A moment, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 24.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(curious)
You let him go.
HANNIBAL
What would you have me do, Bedelia?
As Bedelia ponders Hannibal's question...
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
Bedelia walks down the street.
CAMERA follows her from across the street, keeping pace.
ANGLE ON ANTONY DIMMOND
Also walking the streets. Moving through the crowds,
following Bedelia.
INTERCUT their progress.
Bedelia moves with purpose. Resolved. Anxious.
Dimmond moves with greater freedom, not a care in the world.
Is he stalking her?
Bedelia crosses the street, narrowly avoiding a car that
screeches to a halt before it would have run her down.
Dimmond turns to the sound to see Bedelia disappearing into:
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
Navigating her way through the pastas and hams, Bedelia
approaches the clerk at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
As the clerk prepares the order, Antony strides across the
grocery store, directly toward Bedelia.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Florentines say Vera dal, with its
wealth of cheeses and truffles,
smells like the feet of God.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Hello, Mr. Dimmond.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 25.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I don't know if it's you, me or God,
but there's something in the air.
The clerk hands Bedelia her bag.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Dinner was lovely. I must confess
to a certain abstract curiosity
about your husband... Mrs. Fell.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(stares, then)
Good-bye, Mr. Dimmond.
Bedelia takes the bag and exits. Dimmond follows.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
CAMERA leads Bedelia out of Vera dal 1926 as Dimmond stands
in the doorway behind her, watching her go a moment, then:
ANTONY DIMMOND
I asked one of the scholars at the
Palazzo to point me in the
direction of Dr. Fell. He raised
one craggy old finger and pointed
it directly at your husband. I
thought the old codger made a
mistake, but there was no mistake.
Bedelia keeps walking. Dimmond quickens his pace to catch up.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Even in the teeth of evidence,
you're just going to walk away.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Those aren't the teeth you should
be concerned about.
Bedelia tries to control the tremble building inside her.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Where are Roman and Lydia?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I don't know.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Does your husband know?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 26.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He's not my husband. He is
something entirely Other.
ANTONY DIMMOND
The man is curating an exposition
of Atrocious Torture Instruments.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
The essence of the worst of the
human spirit is not found in the
iron maiden or the whetted edge.
Elemental ugliness, Mr. Dimmond, is
found in the faces of the crowd.
(then)
However you think you're going to
manipulate this situation to your
advantage, think again.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Bluebeard's wife. Secrets you're
not to know, yet sworn to keep.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
If I'm to be Bluebeard's wife, I
would prefer to be the last one.
(then)
Unless you believe you are beyond
harm, go to the police.
ANTONY DIMMOND
You want to be caught.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 27.
ACT FOUR
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PULLS BACK to find her lying flat on her back, covered
in blood. Shes breathing heavy, trembling.
There is a faint gurgling, choking sound that slowly begins to
register on her conscious mind through the sharp HUM of her
ringing ears and THUMPING of her circulatory system. She turns
and CAMERA reveals, lying on the floor next to her, is...
A DYING MAN
Hes dazed, choking on the blood overflowing from his mouth,
eyes rolling back until only the whites are visible.
He stiffens. After a long, horrible moment, he dies.
Bedelia stares, her jagged breath rattles in her ears, heart
racing. She sits up, unable to take her eyes off the dead
man lying next to her.
She raises a hand to brush the matted hair from her face, and
stops. Her hand looks like it has been dunked in a bucket of
blood up to her mid-forearm.
QUICK CUT TO:
MERE MOMENTS EARLIER
Bedelia straddles her PATIENT, holding him by the collar of
his shirt with one hand, the other hand is jammed down his
throat up to the mid-forearm. His eyes bulge.
BACK TO:
BEDELIA
She rises INTO FRAME, standing over her dead patient, and
CAMERA reveals Hannibal standing in the hallway behind her.
HANNIBAL
Bedelia.
Bedelia barely startles, turning to see Hannibal behind her.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He attacked me.
HANNIBAL
Is that your blood?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 28.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No.
Hannibal crouches next to the dead patient and examines his
hands -- theyre clean, free of blood or tissue.
HANNIBAL
You were... defending yourself?
A slow, guilty nod.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was reckless. Reckless violence
is a poor survival mechanism.
HANNIBAL
This wasnt reckless violence. It
was a controlled use of force.
Bedelia is haunted by the truth, tries to reassure herself:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not confused. My imagination
isnt filling in the gaps. I know
what happened here.
HANNIBAL
Do you?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He was your patient before he was
mine, Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
He died under your care.
(then)
Aggression can be an effective
means of maintaining order when
dealing with an unruly patient.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not an aggressive person.
HANNIBAL
Im sure you reacted with a level
of aggression that was uniquely
appropriate for this encounter.
(then)
But you werent defending yourself.
Hannibal stares, seeing right through her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 29.
A SERIES OF CLOSE SHOTS ON -- BEDELIA:
She unbuttons her bloody blouse, slipping it off her
shoulders and peeling it down her abdomen, exposing her
bloodstained undergarments. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - BATHROOM/BEDROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia is silhouetted in the doorway, much like Hannibal
was. CAMERA reveals Hannibal watching her from the shadows
of the bedroom, much like Bedelia was watching Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
I can help you tell the version of
events you want to be told. I can
help you, if you ask me to.
She opens the shower door and turns the nozzle. The
showerhead sprinkles and surges to life.
Bedelia raises her bloodstained hand to the shower stream,
allowing the red to wash away in rivulets down her arm.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
As Hannibals helpful grin starts to dawn...
ON BEDELIA
She stands under the shower, the water washes over her.
STREAMS OF WATER from the showerhead slow until they become
BEADS SUSPENDED IN MIDAIR above Bedelias upturned face.
MATCH CUT TO:
SCATTERED MOTES OF DUST
They float through the SLANT OF LIGHT cutting through the
darkness over Bedelias upturned face. We are now --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT (PRESENT)
Bedelia is beautifully coiffed and elegantly dressed. She
sits among the dragons of the Studiolo, dozens of the mostrenowned medieval and Renaissance scholars in the world.
They sit in rows of folding chairs, surrounded by DOZENS OF
TORTURE INSTRUMENTS, all in various states of restoration.
Hannibals voice creeps into Bedelias consciousness:
HANNIBAL (O.S.)
In accord with my own taste for the
pre-Renaissance...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 30.
The SLANT OF LIGHT over her head projects an IMAGE on a large
drop cloth suspended from the ceiling like a screen.
AN ILLUSTRATION OF SATAN
His three faces, half-immersed in ice, chewing on Brutus,
Cassius and Judas Iscariot, while weeping. Hannibal is a
dark figure pacing the aisles as he speaks:
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
...I present the case of Pietro
della Vigna, whose treachery earned
him a place in Dantes Hell.
ON HANNIBAL
He steps into the light, in front of the illustration of
Satan, its horns peeking out from behind his head.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
He was disgraced and blinded for
betraying his emperors trust.
He presses the switch in his palm and the illustration behind
him is now depicting Dante's nine levels of Hell.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dantes pilgrim finds him in the
seventh level of the Inferno,
reserved for suicides. Like Judas
Iscariot, he died by hanging.
Hannibal paces the aisle, slowly approaching Bedelia.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Judas and Pietro della Vigna are
linked in Dantes Inferno.
Hannibal places a gentle hand on Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal and hanging, then, linked
since antiquity, the image
appearing again and again in art.
An ART SLIDE appears on the drop cloth. Hannibal begins
pacing again, taking his hand off Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
This is the earliest-known
depiction of the Crucifixion,
carved on an ivory box in Gaul
about A.D. four hundred.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 31.
(MORE)
It includes the death by hanging of
Judas, his face upturned to the
branch that suspends him.
NEW ANGLE
A NEW SLIDE appears as CAMERA reveals Antony Dimmond quietly
listening to Hannibals lecture from the back of the room.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
On the doors of the Benevento
Cathedral, we see Judas hanging
with his bowels falling out.
Hannibal squeezes the remote and ANOTHER SLIDE appears.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
And here, from a fifteenth-century
edition of The Inferno, is Pietro
della Vignas body hanging from a
bleeding tree. I wont belabor the
parallels with Judas Iscariot.
ON BEDELIA
Her eyes wander until they find Mr. Dimmond listening
intently. Her face goes slack.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal, hanging, self-destruction.
Hannibal addresses Bedelia almost directly without singling
her out in the audience, all with a glance.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
"Io fei gibetto a me de le mie case."
(translating)
I make my own home be my gallows.
Bedelia averts her eyes just as Hannibal notices Dimmond.
His composure only falters for a brief moment.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Mr. Dimmond. Welcome. Please join
us. We were just about to discuss
the matter of chewing in Dante.
Dimmond smiles politely, then takes a seat. Hannibal glances
at Bedelia, but her chair is now vacant.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 32.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia hurries away from Hannibals presentation as APPLAUSE
erupts from the Studiolo.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT
The dry-yet-enthusiastic applause trickles to a stop as
Hannibal nods his thanks to the Studiolo as they stand and
filter out of the hall.
HANNIBAL
Thank you for your kind attention.
Sogliato is gathering his belongings as Hannibal approaches.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Would you say I secured my
position, Professor Sogliato?
SOGLIATO
The Studiolo seems satisfied.
Dimmond waltzes up, joining Hannibal and Sogliato.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Satisfied? That applause was
downright enthusiastic in its soft
and dusty way.
SOGLIATO
Dottor Fell is a friend of yours?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Ive only known him a short time.
Still, the tales I could tell.
SOGLIATO
Please do.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What kind of friend would I be?
SOGLIATO
What kind of friend, indeed.
(to Hannibal)
Dottore.
Without another word, Sogliato moves off, suppressing an eye
roll, joining the Studiolo as they exit. Dimmond eyes the
various torture instruments surrounding them:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 33.
ANTONY DIMMOND
An exposition of Atrocious Torture
Instruments appeals to connoisseurs
of the very worst in mankind.
HANNIBAL
Now that ceaseless exposure has
calloused us to the lewd and the
vulgar, it is instructive to see
what still seems wicked to us.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What still slaps the clammy flab of
our submissive consciousness hard
enough to get our attention?
HANNIBAL
What wickedness has your attention,
Mr. Dimmond?
Hannibal and Dimmond circle a BREAKING WHEEL as they assess
each others intentions.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Yours, Dr. Fell. I have no
delusions of morality; if I had, I
wouldve gone to la polizia. (then)
Im curious what fate befell Dr.
Fell to see you here in his stead.
Hannibal studies Mr. Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
You may have to strap me to the
breaking wheel to loosen my tongue.
ANTONY DIMMOND
No torture was required to loosen
your wife/not-your-wifes tongue.
(off Hannibal's look)
She overestimated my affection for
the genuine Dr. Fell. Clearly, you
found him as distasteful as I did.
HANNIBAL
On the contrary.
ANTONY DIMMOND
We can twist ourselves into all
manner of uncomfortable positions
just to maintain appearances, with
or without a breaking wheel.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 34.
HANNIBAL
Are you here to twist me into an
uncomfortable position?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Im here to help you untwist... to
our mutual benefit.
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia has donned a coat and is carrying a small suitcase,
hurrying toward the door. She reaches for the doorknob and
stops short. Its starting to turn...
The door opens and Hannibal ushers Antony Dimmond inside. He
averts his eyes away from Bedelias gaze.
POV FROM THE HALL
As Hannibal slowly shuts the door on anyones escape.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 35.
ACT FIVE
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER -- SLOW MOTION
VIOLENT SHADOWS dance across her face. We are in the fog of
Bedelias experience, her hearing numbed by the wash of her
circulatory system and a HIGH-PITCHED RINGING intermittently
broken by STACCATO BURSTS of a terrified heart.
CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BACK
The violent shadows continue their SLOW DANCE across Bedelia
and the wall behind her as Hannibal brutally and efficiently
dispatches Antony Dimmond to the afterlife. Her suitcase is
next to her, her coat draped over her chair. We are --
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - NIGHT
Bedelia is unflinching despite jagged breaths rattling at the
back of her throat. Hannibal stands over Dimmonds corpse.
HANNIBAL
Observe or participate.
The words dont immediately land with Bedelia, still stunned
at what she has witnessed. She slowly looks at Hannibal:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What?
HANNIBAL
Are you, in this very moment,
observing or participating?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Observing.
The corners of Hannibals lips curl ever so slightly.
HANNIBAL
If you can see me, I can see you.
Hannibal leans over Dimmonds broken corpse in a FRAME
reminiscent of him leaning over Bedelias dead patient.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
You say youre observing, but this,
this is participation, Bedelia.
(off her look)
Did you know what he would do when
you asked him to help you? Id
prefer you answer honestly.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 36.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
This always goes better if one of
us is honest.
HANNIBAL
Have you been honest with yourself?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was curious.
HANNIBAL
You were curious what would happen.
You were curious what Mr. Dimmond
would do. What I would do.
(then)
Did you anticipate our thoughts?
Counter-thoughts? Rationalizations?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes.
HANNIBAL
(re: Dimmonds body)
Is this what you expected?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(a moment, then)
Yes.
HANNIBAL
Thats participation.
Hannibal crosses to Bedelias suitcase, picking it up.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Whatve you gotten yourself into,
Bedelia?
(off her silence)
Shall I hang up your coat?
Bedelia absently hands him her coat. Hannibal moves into the
bedroom. Through the open door we can see him place
Bedelias suitcase on the bed and begin to unpack it.
OFF Bedelia staring at Mr. Dimmonds body...
CLOSE ON A BEAUTIFUL VINTAGE LEATHER STEAMER TRUNK
CAMERA reveals TWO PORTERS carry the trunk toward...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 37.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - PLATFORM - DAY
Hannibal ENTERS FRAME behind the two porters and the trunk en
route to the awaiting TRAIN CAR. Dressed in an elegant travel
coat, he strikes a dashing figure as he boards the train.
INT. TRAIN CAR - DAY
Hannibal shares a private compartment with his steamer trunk.
As CAMERA PUSHES IN, Hannibals gaze drifts to the window as
a stunning Italian landscape blurs past...
SNAILS
They topple into a hot pan, a brandy flamb erupts around
them. As the fire starts to fade, a shower of white wine
douses the flame and we EXTINGUISH TO BLACK.
CAMERA PULLS OUT OF A LARGE AFRICAN SNAIL SHELL
The tiny snails from the cochlear garden are tumbling out
onto the dinner table, beautifully cooked. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTERS HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK to reveal Hannibal and Gideon
at the table, flanking the large snail shell. Surrounding
the mouth of the shell are various oysters in the half-shell.
HANNIBAL
Would you rather I extended you the
same kindness as the escargot?
DR. GIDEON
Eating me without my knowledge? I
find knowing to be much more
powerful than not knowing. Why do
you think I'm allowing this?
Hannibal studies his dinner companion, appreciating his bite.
HANNIBAL
Why do you think I'm allowing this?
DR. GIDEON
Snails aren't the only creatures
who prefer to eat in company.
Gideon forks a snail in its shell, which is secured
decoratively so he can use one arm, and pops it in his mouth.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
I'm fascinated to know how you will
feel when all this... happens to you.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 38.
EXT. PALERMO - NORMAN PALACE - DAWN
Time-lapse establishing.
INT. NORMAN CHAPEL - DAWN
Ornate, inspiring and severe.
Morning light glances down from the stained-glass windows,
casting colored pools and dense shadows.
CAMERA prowls the aisles between the rows of pews and finds A
GARGANTUAN HUMAN HEART -- not the organ itself, but a
representation, skillfully molded from the CORPSE OF ANTONY
DIMMOND.
The torso is tucked into a fetal position, hands and feet
have been cut off mid-forearm/mid-shin. The arms and legs
broken and bent to mimic the ventricles and aorta. Dimmonds
head has been removed.
The dark red blood streaking the body and the pallor of the
dead skin create the purplish hues of a recently-removed organ.
The heart is pierced by three swords pushed through the
body at angles, to both secure the organic sculpture in place
and provide a tripod to lift it from the ground.
It almost appears to be a horrifying brazier awaiting flame.
As the sun rises, the multicolored shafts of light beaming
through the stained-glass windows spotlight Hannibals
creation in all its glory...
OFF the tableau, placed amid the gorgeous light, in a
monument to God and mans adulation of him, we...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 39.	
Antipasto
Written by
Bryan Fuller
&
Steve Lightfoot
Directed by
Vincenzo Natali
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #301 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2015 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot 
HANNIBAL
"Antipasto"
TEASER
BLACK
A PANNING LIGHT reveals a HUMAN FACE frozen in torment. Then
a HAND grasping for freedom. Our light now reveals the
TORSO, lean and stretched in agony.
WIDER -- our light casts across a vertical group of HUMAN
BODIES, and as we move over it, the bodies ANIMATE, writhing
in torment.
REVERSE WIDE -- to blackness, and our light is now a
PINPOINT. Slowly enlarging as it comes toward us. And a LOW
DRONE accompanies it, indistinct, but unsettling.
The circle of light grows, and MORPHS into an EYE,
unblinking, as our drone increases, and then our eye again
MORPHS, becoming the SPINNING FRONT WHEEL of a motorcycle.
CLOSE ON A GLOVED HAND as it works the throttle, and the
drone PITCHES HIGHER as the bike changes gear.
ON OUR TORTURED HUMAN FORMS as they writhe against one another
-- and then, IMAGE IS SPLIT by the motorcycle's front wheel as
it splashes through the PUDDLE in which they were reflected.
CLOSE ON WATER DROPLETS as they are launched into the air,
like bubbles, a tortured soul reflecting, trapped, in each as
they spin through the air and turn BLOOD RED.
CLOSE ON THE REFLECTIVE BLACK VISOR of our bike's RIDER --
Figures writhe within the margins of the glass.
REVERSE -- WIDE -- behind the motorbike, now DWARFED IN FRAME
as it rides toward an IMMENSE PAIR OF GATES -- Rodin's Gates
of Hell, the sculpted bodies, caught in torment, adorning
each side.
REVERSE AGAIN -- and now we are back on our rider's visor --
the gates fill the visor, and as the rider gets closer, we
watch in the reflection as the gates BEGIN TO OPEN --
And through the opening space we see PARIS OPENING UP BEYOND.
The bike speeds through the gates, sending the tortured
figures into a new frenzy, and then he is through and the
reflection is now the frenzy of a PARIS NIGHT STREET...
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
The motorcycle -- a TRIUMPH BONNEVILLE -- swerves and cuts
between two cars like a knife through butter.
The Bonneville dances between lanes as the rider throws his
weight from side to side.
We enjoy his progress; his skill and prowess as he owns the
road.
CLOSE ON the reflective visor of his helmet, the world beyond
zooming by, reflected in the black glass.
His gloved hands on the throttle; his foot as it kicks the
powerful bike through the gears.
The Bonneville BRAKES to a sudden halt. The rider gets off.
Dressed in Belstaff. He removes the helmet. For a brief
second, those bodies writhe across it again -- there, and then
gone -- and we see the rider now: it is HANNIBAL LECTER.
As we haven't seen him before. Looser, longer hair; a little
rougher; a man free of responsibilities.
INT. PARIS PARTY VENUE - NIGHT
PALE YELLOW LIQUID fizzes into a glass flute. A hand takes the
champagne and moves from a bar, and we go with it, revealing --
A PARTY CROWD -- under a banner: "Bon Voyage, Roman Fell."
It is a well-heeled leaving party for DR. ROMAN FELL, a tall,
lean man of 50, sporting a fine academic's beard. He holds
court in the center of the room. He loves the attention of a
crowd of young acolytes and well-wishers.
We move through the throng, toward him. As people part in front
of us, we REVERSE to reveal this is Hannibal Lecter's POV.
His eyes fixed on Roman Fell.
STAY ON Hannibal as he moves lithely through the crowd,
bodies between him and us, he is there and then gone -- like
a tiger moving through the long grass. His eyes never
leaving his prey. Appraising, calculating...
A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN crosses his path, makes eye contact.
Hannibal returns it. Raises his glass.
She smiles, but Hannibal inclines his head and passes on the
invitation to linger. Steps around her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 2.
ANTONY DIMMOND, 40s, tall, lean, somewhat louche-looking --
his clothes expensive, but old and worn -- darts suddenly at
a WAITRESS with a tray of champagne, snaffles two glasses.
He tosses one back quickly, then notices Hannibal noticing.
ANTONY DIMMOND
(re: his two glasses)
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
(then)
Antony Dimmond. I'd offer a hand,
but--
HANNIBAL
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Do you know Roman well?
Dimmond clocks Hannibal's eyes wandering back toward Dr. Fell
amid a circle of people.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
You were staring with the thinlyveiled disdain of a man who does.
I was his TA at Cambridge. He was
insufferable even then.
Dimmond finishes the second flute of champagne and puts it on a
passing tray. Grabs two more and hands Hannibal one of them.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Have you read his books? They're
terrible. You know they're
terrible, but you're too polite to
say. Blink if you agree.
(off his blink)
See.
Dimmond pulls a weathered paperback from his coat pocket.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
That doesn't stop him squatting
over a keyboard and depositing a
fresh one every six to eight
months. It has taken me six to
eight months to write one line.
HANNIBAL
Why?
Dimmond stares at Hannibal a moment, as if the answer is
abundantly clear, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 3.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Poetry is hard. Was too hard for
Roman. Easier for him to slide into
academia and dissect the efforts of
others than stand by his own words.
HANNIBAL
One can appreciate another's words
without dissecting them. Though,
on occasion, dissection is the only
thing that will do.
OFF Hannibal's glance in Dr. Fell's direction...
CUT TO:
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
Dr. Roman Fell walks home, merrily drunk, excited by the
prospect of his new adventure.
Behind him, our Bonneville idles slowly across the street.
As Hannibal is putting on his helmet:
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir.
Dr. Fell is reflected in the black maw of Hannibal's visor as
Hannibal slowly follows him, then passes him by. CAMERA
follows Dr. Fell as Hannibal's Bonneville speeds away.
EXT./INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
Dr. Fell enters his building and heads up the stairs. He
stops short when he sees Hannibal standing outside his door.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir?
CUT TO:
INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
BLOOD RED WINE SPLASHES up the sides of a glass.
Hands place an OPERA RECORD on a turntable. CLOSE ON the
needle as it drops.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 4.
BUTTER melts in a pan.
LIVER is tossed in with a sizzle... a dash of brandy is added
and flares into flame.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's knife and fork as it slices through the
liver on his plate.
A blush of blood STAINS the juices on the plate. He brings
it to his lips. Chews.
Delicious.
CUT TO:
PUSH IN OMINOUSLY
On the inside of the closed apartment door.
CLOSER and CLOSER till the handle turns and it opens toward
us -- and a stylishly-dressed woman enters.
MRS. FELL!
She hears the opera and smiles.
Moves toward the dining room.
She halts in the doorway.
CAMERA moves around her to register the cause of her confusion.
MRS. FELL'S POV
Hannibal Lecter sits at the table, linen and cutlery
immaculately placed. Savoring his food, a nice Bordeaux and
the music.
Hannibal smiles up at her.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 5.
ACT ONE
DARKNESS
A REFLECTIVE SHAPE moves toward CAMERA. It is --
A LARGE SILVER DOME.
It covers a sizeable serving platter that is moving through a
darkened room until, finally, the REFLECTION OF ABEL GIDEON
bows across its surface. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
ABEL GIDEON sits at the beautifully-appointed table; he has a
drip in one arm and a chest monitor. Under the table, we see
that Gideon is now missing both legs at the thigh. (NOTE:
This takes place between Eps. #206 and 207.)
The silver dome turns and Gideon watches his reflection SLIDE
DOWN the length of the platter. The platter is lifted from
the sidecar and placed in the middle of the dinner table.
The large silver dome rises off the platter as if by unseen
hands floating somewhere in the darkness. Underneath the
dome and further unveiled by a SILKY CLOUD OF SMOKE:
GIDEON'S LEG
From hip to ankle, beautifully roasted with SUGAR CANE QUILLS
sticking out of the flesh in a pleasing grid pattern. It's
mounted on a plank, like a long whole ham.
DR. GIDEON
You really are the Devil.
Certainly seem to enjoy it. You
have a click in your hoof.
FROM GIDEON'S POV -- HANNIBAL
He appears to MATERIALIZE out of the THINNING MIST rising off
the bed of smoking sprigs of thyme.
HANNIBAL
The Devil has been a yoke on the
neck of humanity since we first
began to think and dream.
(then)
I for a much shorter time.
Gideon takes a deep, appreciative breath.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 6.
DR. GIDEON
You admit the yoke.
(then)
Smells like candy apples. And
thyme. You smoked me in thyme.
HANNIBAL
Smoked. Glazed. Slow-cooked.
Served on a sugar cane quill. You
will be falling off the bone.
Hannibal plucks a sugar cane quill, pulling out a MEDALLION
OF MEAT from Gideon's severed leg, like a Popsicle stick, and
placing it on his guest's plate.
DR. GIDEON
Well, of course.
(then)
And with these rarified dishes you
so thoughtfully prepare...
(then)
...do we all taste different?
HANNIBAL
Everyone has their flavor.
Gideon's eyes narrow, not giving Hannibal the satisfaction of
seeing him impressed one way or another.
DR. GIDEON
Cannibalism was standard behavior
among our ancestors. Missing link
is only missing because we ate him.
HANNIBAL
This isn't cannibalism, Abel. It's
only cannibalism if we're equals.
DR. GIDEON
It's only cannibalism if you eat
me. But you feel this is just the
natural order of things? Everybody
gets et?
HANNIBAL
Be he fat or be he lean.
DR. GIDEON
My last leg standing across the
table from me, and I still wrestle
with the urges to fight or flee.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 7.
HANNIBAL
It's called "terminal restlessness."
The body fills with adrenaline and
feels compelled to go-go-go.
DR. GIDEON
"Go-go-go"? I've already got up
and gone. This is posthumous.
HANNIBAL
You're not dead yet, Abel. You
still have to eat.
DR. GIDEON
No, I don't.
Gideon takes a bite of the medallion of meat before him.
It's truly something special, but once again, he doesn't give
Hannibal the satisfaction. Hannibal smiles, regardless.
Gideon is about to take another bite, but pauses to glance
around the beautifully-appointed room and at his devilish host.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
At this point, there is absolutely
nothing I have to do. But I don't
want to spoil the fairy tale, do I?
You and your gingerbread house.
HANNIBAL
Let it be a fairy tale, then.
(then)
Once upon a time...
OFF Hannibal...
GRAND MUSIC begins to rise, taking us to --
INT. FLORENCE BALLROOM - NIGHT
A dazzlingly-dressed couple as they sweep ACROSS FRAME in a
stylish waltz.
It could be a scene from Cinderella's dreams... The glitter
of jewelry and champagne. The dash of black tie and
ballgowns; the dance floor filled with couples sweeping in
graceful patterns across it.
CAMERA moves through the dancing figures to find a
particularly-elegant couple and stays with them as they swoop
across the floor... They waltz around CAMERA, faces hidden
from us as they move in perfect union, until the music comes
to an end and the man dips his partner low to the ground --
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 8.
Revealing Hannibal and a stunning BEDELIA DU MAURIER... a
prince and his princess. He smiles down at her, both
somewhat breathless.
A beat, and then he pulls her back to him.
HANNIBAL
Bellissima.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
Hannibal snags them both champagne off a passing tray.
SOGLIATO (O.S.)
Dr. Fell, I hope you translate as
well as you waltz.
SOGLIATO is a smooth, oily Italian, late 30s. Impeccably
dressed. An academic who wears his ego like armor. Sogliato
kisses Bedelia's hand and then shakes Hannibal's. He stands
with SIGNOR and SIGNORA ALBIZZI -- president of the museum's
governing board.
SIGNOR ALBIZZI
Our new appointee was confirmed by
the board after close questioning.
SOGLIATO
You've examined him in medieval
Italian, and I will not deny his
language is admirable.
Bedelia watches this exchange. Intrigued. Aware others in
the crowd are observing. As is Sogliato...
HANNIBAL
Thank you.
SOGLIATO
For a straniero.
Sogliato smiles at the audience now ear-wigging shamelessly.
Bedelia is watching Hannibal, the way his eyes go dead for a
second at the insult before he smiles.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Are you familiar with the
personalities of pre-Renaissance
Florence? I think not. (a smile for Bedelia)
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 9.
(MORE)
Dr. Fell might hold in his hand --
in his non-Italian hand -- a note
from Dante Alighieri himself. Would
he recognize it? I think not.
Bedelia intercedes:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato, would you do me
the honor of a dance?
Bedelia offers her arm. Keen to lead him away. Hannibal
noting her intention. As they turn away:
HANNIBAL "Allegro mi sembrava Amor tenendo /
meo core in mano, e ne le braccia
avea / madonna involta in un drappo
dormendo. / Poi la svegliava, e
d'esto core ardendo / lei paventosa
umilmente pascea; / appreso gir lo
ne vedea piangendo."
Some of those listening applaud loudly at this stirring
recital. Sogliato hates it. Bedelia smiles at Hannibal.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dante's first sonnet. It
fascinated Cavalcanti. The eating
of the heart is a powerful image.
Hannibal doesn't have to be smug; Signor Albizzi is smug for
him. Off that smugness:
SOGLIATO
If he's such an expert on Dante,
let him lecture on Dante, to the
Studiolo. Let him face them.
(then)
Extempore.
The reaction of the crowd says this is a strong challenge.
Hannibal merely inclines his head.
HANNIBAL
I'm happy to sing for my supper.
He holds Sogliato's gaze. Battle met.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato.
Bedelia looks to Sogliato who takes her hand to dance.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 10.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Hannibal smiles at Bedelia who doesn't return his smile.
EXT. FLORENCE - NIGHT
CAMERA moves across the city as the evening gathers and the
streets empty, the fan pattern of the cobbles shining in a
drizzle. CAMERA finds A SILHOUETTED MAN on a balcony.
CLOSE ON HANNIBAL
As we watch, his face becomes washed with amber, as if under
liquid, flowing and indistinct.
We are now --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
STAY ON this Hannibal in amber, framed within the proscenium
arch of his balcony, looking out over Florence...
HANNIBAL
We are among the palaces built six
hundred years ago by the merchant
princes, the kingmakers and
connivers of Renaissance Florence.
...until Bedelia reaches for the glass of brandy he is
offering her and breaks the illusion.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
As connivers of modern Florence.
Hannibal looks out over the city, considering its romance.
HANNIBAL
I've found a peace here that I
would preserve. I've killed hardly
anybody during our residence.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You created the vacancy at the
Palazzo Capponi by removing the
former curator.
HANNIBAL
A simple process requiring a few
seconds' work on the old man and a
modest outlay for two bags of cement.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You no longer have ethical
problems, Hannibal. You have
aesthetical ones.
(re: her zipper)
Could you?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 11.
She turns and Hannibal stands behind her and slowly unzips
her dress, revealing her bare back.
HANNIBAL
Ethics become aesthetics.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You seem more concerned with making
appearances than maintaining them.
HANNIBAL
If this is about my position at the
Palazzo, once the path was cleared,
I won the job fairly. On my merits.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes, even the most-contentious
Florentines can't resist the verse
of Dante ringing off frescoed walls.
HANNIBAL
One contentious Florentine can.
Bedelia crosses into:
INT. HANNIBAL'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY/BEDELIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
A large, freestanding CAST-IRON BATH in there. Bedelia
enters and turns the ornate taps. Water thunders out. She
turns to see Hannibal in the doorway.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Have you given serious thought to
eating Professor Sogliato?
HANNIBAL
My killing Sogliato now would not
preserve the peace.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Your peace is without morality.
HANNIBAL
Morality doesn't exist. Only morale.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How you feel today.
HANNIBAL
How do you feel today?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I still believe I'm in conscious
control of my actions. Given your
history, that's a good day.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 12.
OFF Bedelia's soft, polite smile...
CLOSE ON A RUSHING TAP
It is turned off and the steaming torrent becomes a DRIP. The
drip sends RINGS spreading to the deep sides of the bathtub.
Bedelia lies back and IMMERSES herself under the water. The
surface six inches from her mouth. Like Ophelia lying under
the surface of the lake... HOLDING HER BREATH -- A SINGLE
BUBBLE escapes her lips and slowly pops on the surface. She
stares upward. Slowly, her eyes close.
Around her, the water DARKENS TO BLACK, as if the bottom of
the bath has fallen away to reveal an ENDLESS DEPTH. And now
Bedelia is SLOWLY SINKING, horizontally sliding downward into
the Stygian dark...
BEDELIA'S POV -- amid the darkness, GNARLED ROOTS clamber
around one another, slick and wet amid the water...
LOWER and LOWER she sinks, beyond this level, into the next.
Until finally she comes to the BOTTOM and her body comes to
rest in a black silt that RISES AROUND HER in SWIRLS and
WISPS, as if welcoming her into its grasp.
ON BEDELIA'S CLOSED EYES
Another SOLITARY BUBBLE rises from her lips, and we RISE AWAY
from her to follow its progress.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
An area of ARTISAN FOOD STORES -- the streets thronged with
shoppers. CAMERA finds Bedelia among them, moving through
the crowd, a distant focus in her eyes.
CLOSE ON BEDELIA
A POLICE CONSTABLE comes down the street toward her. He
smiles, tips his hat to the beautiful lady. She nods, her
smile fading the moment he passes.
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
An elegant Florentine fine grocer filled with fine wines and
exotic cheeses. Bedelia approaches the CLERK at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
CUT TO:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 13.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
Bedelia sits on a bench, her shopping bag from Vera dal 1926
next to her. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal...
...she sits on the platform of a train station.
A CCTV camera sits above her, covering the length of the
platform. Bedelia looks up at it and then back to the TRAIN
which is about to depart. Its open carriage doors are an
invitation... Will she take it?
OFF Bedelia...
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 14.
ACT TWO
EXT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PUSHES IN as headlights roll up the driveway and
across the siding of the house as a car approaches.
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - FOYER/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA moves through the darkened hall until FRAMING AN
EXTREME CLOSE-UP ON THE FRONT DOORKNOB.
The SOUND OF A KEY in the door --
Breaks the quiet. LIGHT SPILLS in as the door opens.
Bedelia enters.
She turns to the living room as CAMERA reveals almost every
piece of her furniture is beneath a drop cloth, protected
against dust for an indefinite period of time -- just as she
left it before she fled Hannibal and the FBI.
(NOTE: Bedelia has just come from the FBIs interrogation
room, as seen in Ep. #212, Tome-wan.)
Bedelia takes in the shroud of the chairs, walking the rooms
periphery, searching for some sense of herself. She pauses.
AN EMPTY CHAIR
Where she left a glass-cut perfume bottle for Hannibal weeks
earlier. Its gone. She considers its absence, then:
CLOSE ON THE SPIKE OF A CORKSCREW
It TWISTS through the cork in a bottle of wine. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia opens the bottle of wine and pours herself a glass.
She reacts, twists the bottle upward to stem the flow. One
last drop of wine falls into the glass and she listens.
CAMERA FOLLOWS BEDELIA
She moves into the hall as a distinct sound grows louder and
louder until she recognizes it. The shower is running.
INT. BEDELIA'S HOUSE - BEDROOM/BATHROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
She moves into her bedroom, toward the open door of her
bathroom through which she can see bloody clothes strewn
across the floor and a MAN IN HER SHOWER.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 15.
HANNIBAL
He stands naked in Bedelias shower, blood thinly streaming
from his various cuts and wounds as water washes them clean.
He twists the pressure valve closed until the water only drips.
Hannibal steps out of the shower, allowing the water to bead
off of him, before grabbing a towel to dry himself.
There is a familiar CLICK of a gun cocking and Hannibal
realizes he is no longer alone.
HANNIBALS POV -- THE SHADOWS
He slowly pushes the bathroom door open, casting light into
the bedroom and finally illuminating Bedelia sitting calmly,
holding a gun in one hand and a glass of wine in the other.
BEDELIAS POV -- HANNIBAL
He stands naked, silhouetted in the doorway.
HANNIBAL
May I get dressed?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You may.
Hannibal lets his towel drop and pulls on his underwear.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER (CONTD)
What have you done, Hannibal?
HANNIBAL
Ive taken off my person suit.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You let them see you.
HANNIBAL
I let them see enough.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How does that feel? Being seen?
Hannibal shrugs on his shirt and buttons it.
HANNIBAL
Youre not in a position to ask,
Dr. Du Maurier. You ended our
patient-psychiatrist relationship.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 16.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I lacked the appropriate skills to
continue your treatment.
HANNIBAL
I never found you to be lacking.
She studies him a moment, then:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im sorry I didnt leave you with a
suitable substitute for therapy.
(then)
Is Will Graham still alive?
Hannibal goes still. A quiet moment as he curbs his emotions.
HANNIBAL
Will Graham was not a suitable
substitute for therapy.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What was he?
HANNIBAL
Is this professional curiosity?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Almost entirely.
HANNIBAL
Do you trust me?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not entirely.
(then)
Trust is driven by an emotional
sense of what to do, and a very
conscious sense what not to do.
HANNIBAL
Are you taking into account my
beliefs about your intentions?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My intentions?
HANNIBAL
Human motivation can be little more
than lucid greed.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Greed and blind optimism.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 17.
HANNIBAL
Youre optimistic I wont kill you.
OFF Bedelia as she smoothly un-cocks the gun in her hand,
sets it aside and takes a sip of wine.
PRE-LAP A SUDDEN SQUEALING --
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
The hurly-burly of the Paris train about to depart. Lastminute PASSENGERS jumping aboard.
CONDUCTORS make their last calls.
Train doors SLAM.
The SIGNAL LIGHTS change.
The Paris train pulls out of the station slowly, revealing
Bedelia still sitting on her bench, watching it go...
CCTV -- looking down on Bedelia as she looks up at the
camera... looking anything but optimistic.
MUSIC RISES over her, taking us to --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - DAY
A darkened room. The music plays as Hannibal works on his
speech to the Studiolo, rapt and transported.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's face and hands, light flickering over
them as he works with slides and a projector.
Hannibal studies paintings and poems, writing notes, struck
by their power. Absorbed in a world of beauty and intellect.
Happy.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - CORRIDOR - DAY
ON HANNIBAL
Smiling, happy with life, as he walks down a vaulted
corridor, light and shadow alternating on his face as he
passes the windows...
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY/FOYER - DAY
He comes down a wide flight of stone stairs and into the foyer.
Bright sunlight shines in from the outside.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 18.
Hannibal walks toward it, the LENS FLARING as he becomes a
silhouette, his face going to darkness as the bright sunlight
of the doorframe envelopes him.
MATCH CUT TO:
EXT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - DAY
As Hannibal emerges onto the steps and looks across the busy
square.
ANTONY DIMMOND (O.S.)
Hello! Bonjour!
Hannibal does not realize this is directed at him, but as he
heads down the stairs, a hand grabs his arm.
ON HANNIBAL -- for a second his eyes threaten violence -- but
then he turns to see:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sporting stubble and wild hair. He seems absentminded, but
his eyes are sharp.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
We met in Paris a few months back.
Sorry, didn't mean to startle you,
but here I was and then, there you
were... I never forget a face...
HANNIBAL
Antony Dimmond.
Dimmond beams with pleasure.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Nice to be remembered.
HANNIBAL
You're hard to forget.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What are you doing in Florence?
Are you working with Roman?
HANNIBAL
Dr. Fell?
ANTONY DIMMOND
I heard he took an appointment at
the Capponi library.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 19.
ON HANNIBAL -- Dimmond is astute beneath his manner. Doesn't
miss much, it seems.
HANNIBAL
Yes, he's the new curator and
translator of the Palazzo Capponi.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Evidently, the last one eloped with
a woman or someone's money or both.
Hannibal is cool.
HANNIBAL
That's the commonly-held belief.
(then)
You just missed Roman.
Dimmond looks crestfallen.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Did I? Was hoping to take the piss.
Hannibal studies Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
Spare the piss for the time being.
If you're free, my wife and I would
love to have you for dinner.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 20.
ACT THREE
CLOSE ON A SNAIL
It moves at a snail's pace across a slick, fleshy surface.
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal it is one snail among dozens.
We are --
INT. COCHLEAR GARDEN - DARK (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK until it reveals a plump snail
feasting on the tip of a human finger.
The snails are crawling across the flesh of an arm resting in
a pool of wine marinade, also consumed by dozens of snails.
Fingers of the living reach INTO FRAME and pluck the plump
snail from the fingers of the marinating severed arm.
CLOSE ON A PLUMP SNAIL
CAMERA RACK FOCUSES onto Hannibal studying the snail as it
crawls across his fingers. He's dressed in a three-piece
plaid suit and an apron, harvesting his cochlear garden.
HANNIBAL
Listen.
He holds his breath for a moment and we hear dozens of little
RASP-LIKE TONGUES CHEWING on Gideon's severed arm.
Reveal Gideon.
He is listening, but not as impressed as Hannibal -- as it is
his flesh the snails are chewing. He sits on a motorized
wheelchair. His left arm is missing below the shoulder. The
fresh amputation wound is tightly dressed.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
They prefer eating in company.
Hannibal plucks snails from their moist roosts, collecting
them in an elegant glass cylinder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
I've kept cochlear gardens since I
was a young man, fattening snails on
herbs and vine leaves. Like all of
us, what they eat greatly influences
and enhances their flavor.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 21.
DR. GIDEON
When I'm not eating myself, you
wish me to be eating oysters.
Drinking sweet wines, snacking on
acorns. All to make me tastier?
HANNIBAL
Oh yes.
(re: the snails)
And you are making them tastier.
DR. GIDEON
And I you. Imagine what you must
taste like. Won't be long before
someone takes a bite out of you.
Hannibal notes Gideon's tone.
HANNIBAL
When agitated, sea snails produce a
purple dye. Its color won't fade.
Becomes brighter with weathering.
(then)
You're becoming brighter, Abel.
Dying hasn't dulled you one bit.
Gideon politely turns his attention back to the snails:
DR. GIDEON
The snails are certainly having a
lovely experience, fattened on me
in a red-wine marinade. They have
no idea they're going to be eaten.
(then)
We do.
CLOSE ON AN OYSTER SHELL
CAMERA crawls across its surface. A SHUCKING BLADE ENTERS
FRAME and splits the shell, at its hinge, with a twist,
removing the lid and revealing the oyster.
The oyster in its cup is placed on a bed of ice, SPINNING to
reveal it is joining a dozen oysters fanned across a platter.
A woman's hand ENTERS FRAME and takes an oyster.
CAMERA follows the oyster to reveal Bedelia. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Bedelia sits with Hannibal and Antony Dimmond at the table.
She is hiding her fears well, surrounded by a tray of oysters
and nuts. Hannibal at ease, a platter of meats between him and
Dimmond, who enjoys the hospitality, pours himself more wine.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 22.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(to Dimmond)
How well do you know the Fells?
She shoots the oyster in her imperceptibly-trembling hand.
ANTONY DIMMOND
As well as anybody. Which'd be not
really. Lydia a friend of yours?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not really.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I'd be surprised to hear she had
one. We share a mutual detestation.
She disapproves of my disapproval.
HANNIBAL
What do you disapprove of?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Roman, mainly. Lydia isn't quite
bright enough to see I'm just
intimidated. Roman does, of course.
How he loves to strike fear.
HANNIBAL
Dante wrote that fear is almost as
bitter as death.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Dante wasn't dead when he wrote it.
HANNIBAL
Are you traveling alone, Antony?
The question sends a shudder down Bedelia's spine.
ANTONY DIMMOND
It's the only way I travel.
HANNIBAL
Roman is speaking to the Studiolo
Friday. On Dante. You should come.
If Bedelia had been chewing, she would have choked.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sounds appropriately hellish.
Dimmond clocks Bedelia as she reaches for another oyster.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 23.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Are you avoiding meats?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I'm trying not to eat anything with
a central nervous system.
Dimmond calls out the food in her corner of the table:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Oysters, acorns and Marsala. That's
what ancient Romans would feed
animals to improve their flavor.
Bedelia does her best to hide her realization, steadies
herself. Hannibal watches her very closely as she digests.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My husband has quite a
sophisticated palette. He's
particular about how I taste.
Bedelia shoots another oyster back. Hannibal stares. An
uncomfortably-long beat as Dimmond considers that. Finally:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Is it that kind of party?
HANNIBAL
It is not that kind of party.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No, it really isn't.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Shame. You were both suddenly so
fascinating.
HARD CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Dimmond stands in the open doorway, shrugging on his coat as
Hannibal and Bedelia see him out.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Buonasera.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Buonasera.
HANNIBAL
Buonasera.
Hannibal closes the door as Dimmond walks away.
A moment, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 24.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(curious)
You let him go.
HANNIBAL
What would you have me do, Bedelia?
As Bedelia ponders Hannibal's question...
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
Bedelia walks down the street.
CAMERA follows her from across the street, keeping pace.
ANGLE ON ANTONY DIMMOND
Also walking the streets. Moving through the crowds,
following Bedelia.
INTERCUT their progress.
Bedelia moves with purpose. Resolved. Anxious.
Dimmond moves with greater freedom, not a care in the world.
Is he stalking her?
Bedelia crosses the street, narrowly avoiding a car that
screeches to a halt before it would have run her down.
Dimmond turns to the sound to see Bedelia disappearing into:
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
Navigating her way through the pastas and hams, Bedelia
approaches the clerk at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
As the clerk prepares the order, Antony strides across the
grocery store, directly toward Bedelia.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Florentines say Vera dal, with its
wealth of cheeses and truffles,
smells like the feet of God.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Hello, Mr. Dimmond.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 25.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I don't know if it's you, me or God,
but there's something in the air.
The clerk hands Bedelia her bag.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Dinner was lovely. I must confess
to a certain abstract curiosity
about your husband... Mrs. Fell.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(stares, then)
Good-bye, Mr. Dimmond.
Bedelia takes the bag and exits. Dimmond follows.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
CAMERA leads Bedelia out of Vera dal 1926 as Dimmond stands
in the doorway behind her, watching her go a moment, then:
ANTONY DIMMOND
I asked one of the scholars at the
Palazzo to point me in the
direction of Dr. Fell. He raised
one craggy old finger and pointed
it directly at your husband. I
thought the old codger made a
mistake, but there was no mistake.
Bedelia keeps walking. Dimmond quickens his pace to catch up.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Even in the teeth of evidence,
you're just going to walk away.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Those aren't the teeth you should
be concerned about.
Bedelia tries to control the tremble building inside her.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Where are Roman and Lydia?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I don't know.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Does your husband know?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 26.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He's not my husband. He is
something entirely Other.
ANTONY DIMMOND
The man is curating an exposition
of Atrocious Torture Instruments.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
The essence of the worst of the
human spirit is not found in the
iron maiden or the whetted edge.
Elemental ugliness, Mr. Dimmond, is
found in the faces of the crowd.
(then)
However you think you're going to
manipulate this situation to your
advantage, think again.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Bluebeard's wife. Secrets you're
not to know, yet sworn to keep.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
If I'm to be Bluebeard's wife, I
would prefer to be the last one.
(then)
Unless you believe you are beyond
harm, go to the police.
ANTONY DIMMOND
You want to be caught.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 27.
ACT FOUR
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PULLS BACK to find her lying flat on her back, covered
in blood. Shes breathing heavy, trembling.
There is a faint gurgling, choking sound that slowly begins to
register on her conscious mind through the sharp HUM of her
ringing ears and THUMPING of her circulatory system. She turns
and CAMERA reveals, lying on the floor next to her, is...
A DYING MAN
Hes dazed, choking on the blood overflowing from his mouth,
eyes rolling back until only the whites are visible.
He stiffens. After a long, horrible moment, he dies.
Bedelia stares, her jagged breath rattles in her ears, heart
racing. She sits up, unable to take her eyes off the dead
man lying next to her.
She raises a hand to brush the matted hair from her face, and
stops. Her hand looks like it has been dunked in a bucket of
blood up to her mid-forearm.
QUICK CUT TO:
MERE MOMENTS EARLIER
Bedelia straddles her PATIENT, holding him by the collar of
his shirt with one hand, the other hand is jammed down his
throat up to the mid-forearm. His eyes bulge.
BACK TO:
BEDELIA
She rises INTO FRAME, standing over her dead patient, and
CAMERA reveals Hannibal standing in the hallway behind her.
HANNIBAL
Bedelia.
Bedelia barely startles, turning to see Hannibal behind her.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He attacked me.
HANNIBAL
Is that your blood?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 28.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No.
Hannibal crouches next to the dead patient and examines his
hands -- theyre clean, free of blood or tissue.
HANNIBAL
You were... defending yourself?
A slow, guilty nod.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was reckless. Reckless violence
is a poor survival mechanism.
HANNIBAL
This wasnt reckless violence. It
was a controlled use of force.
Bedelia is haunted by the truth, tries to reassure herself:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not confused. My imagination
isnt filling in the gaps. I know
what happened here.
HANNIBAL
Do you?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He was your patient before he was
mine, Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
He died under your care.
(then)
Aggression can be an effective
means of maintaining order when
dealing with an unruly patient.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not an aggressive person.
HANNIBAL
Im sure you reacted with a level
of aggression that was uniquely
appropriate for this encounter.
(then)
But you werent defending yourself.
Hannibal stares, seeing right through her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 29.
A SERIES OF CLOSE SHOTS ON -- BEDELIA:
She unbuttons her bloody blouse, slipping it off her
shoulders and peeling it down her abdomen, exposing her
bloodstained undergarments. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - BATHROOM/BEDROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia is silhouetted in the doorway, much like Hannibal
was. CAMERA reveals Hannibal watching her from the shadows
of the bedroom, much like Bedelia was watching Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
I can help you tell the version of
events you want to be told. I can
help you, if you ask me to.
She opens the shower door and turns the nozzle. The
showerhead sprinkles and surges to life.
Bedelia raises her bloodstained hand to the shower stream,
allowing the red to wash away in rivulets down her arm.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
As Hannibals helpful grin starts to dawn...
ON BEDELIA
She stands under the shower, the water washes over her.
STREAMS OF WATER from the showerhead slow until they become
BEADS SUSPENDED IN MIDAIR above Bedelias upturned face.
MATCH CUT TO:
SCATTERED MOTES OF DUST
They float through the SLANT OF LIGHT cutting through the
darkness over Bedelias upturned face. We are now --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT (PRESENT)
Bedelia is beautifully coiffed and elegantly dressed. She
sits among the dragons of the Studiolo, dozens of the mostrenowned medieval and Renaissance scholars in the world.
They sit in rows of folding chairs, surrounded by DOZENS OF
TORTURE INSTRUMENTS, all in various states of restoration.
Hannibals voice creeps into Bedelias consciousness:
HANNIBAL (O.S.)
In accord with my own taste for the
pre-Renaissance...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 30.
The SLANT OF LIGHT over her head projects an IMAGE on a large
drop cloth suspended from the ceiling like a screen.
AN ILLUSTRATION OF SATAN
His three faces, half-immersed in ice, chewing on Brutus,
Cassius and Judas Iscariot, while weeping. Hannibal is a
dark figure pacing the aisles as he speaks:
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
...I present the case of Pietro
della Vigna, whose treachery earned
him a place in Dantes Hell.
ON HANNIBAL
He steps into the light, in front of the illustration of
Satan, its horns peeking out from behind his head.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
He was disgraced and blinded for
betraying his emperors trust.
He presses the switch in his palm and the illustration behind
him is now depicting Dante's nine levels of Hell.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dantes pilgrim finds him in the
seventh level of the Inferno,
reserved for suicides. Like Judas
Iscariot, he died by hanging.
Hannibal paces the aisle, slowly approaching Bedelia.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Judas and Pietro della Vigna are
linked in Dantes Inferno.
Hannibal places a gentle hand on Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal and hanging, then, linked
since antiquity, the image
appearing again and again in art.
An ART SLIDE appears on the drop cloth. Hannibal begins
pacing again, taking his hand off Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
This is the earliest-known
depiction of the Crucifixion,
carved on an ivory box in Gaul
about A.D. four hundred.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 31.
(MORE)
It includes the death by hanging of
Judas, his face upturned to the
branch that suspends him.
NEW ANGLE
A NEW SLIDE appears as CAMERA reveals Antony Dimmond quietly
listening to Hannibals lecture from the back of the room.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
On the doors of the Benevento
Cathedral, we see Judas hanging
with his bowels falling out.
Hannibal squeezes the remote and ANOTHER SLIDE appears.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
And here, from a fifteenth-century
edition of The Inferno, is Pietro
della Vignas body hanging from a
bleeding tree. I wont belabor the
parallels with Judas Iscariot.
ON BEDELIA
Her eyes wander until they find Mr. Dimmond listening
intently. Her face goes slack.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal, hanging, self-destruction.
Hannibal addresses Bedelia almost directly without singling
her out in the audience, all with a glance.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
"Io fei gibetto a me de le mie case."
(translating)
I make my own home be my gallows.
Bedelia averts her eyes just as Hannibal notices Dimmond.
His composure only falters for a brief moment.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Mr. Dimmond. Welcome. Please join
us. We were just about to discuss
the matter of chewing in Dante.
Dimmond smiles politely, then takes a seat. Hannibal glances
at Bedelia, but her chair is now vacant.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 32.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia hurries away from Hannibals presentation as APPLAUSE
erupts from the Studiolo.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT
The dry-yet-enthusiastic applause trickles to a stop as
Hannibal nods his thanks to the Studiolo as they stand and
filter out of the hall.
HANNIBAL
Thank you for your kind attention.
Sogliato is gathering his belongings as Hannibal approaches.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Would you say I secured my
position, Professor Sogliato?
SOGLIATO
The Studiolo seems satisfied.
Dimmond waltzes up, joining Hannibal and Sogliato.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Satisfied? That applause was
downright enthusiastic in its soft
and dusty way.
SOGLIATO
Dottor Fell is a friend of yours?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Ive only known him a short time.
Still, the tales I could tell.
SOGLIATO
Please do.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What kind of friend would I be?
SOGLIATO
What kind of friend, indeed.
(to Hannibal)
Dottore.
Without another word, Sogliato moves off, suppressing an eye
roll, joining the Studiolo as they exit. Dimmond eyes the
various torture instruments surrounding them:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 33.
ANTONY DIMMOND
An exposition of Atrocious Torture
Instruments appeals to connoisseurs
of the very worst in mankind.
HANNIBAL
Now that ceaseless exposure has
calloused us to the lewd and the
vulgar, it is instructive to see
what still seems wicked to us.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What still slaps the clammy flab of
our submissive consciousness hard
enough to get our attention?
HANNIBAL
What wickedness has your attention,
Mr. Dimmond?
Hannibal and Dimmond circle a BREAKING WHEEL as they assess
each others intentions.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Yours, Dr. Fell. I have no
delusions of morality; if I had, I
wouldve gone to la polizia. (then)
Im curious what fate befell Dr.
Fell to see you here in his stead.
Hannibal studies Mr. Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
You may have to strap me to the
breaking wheel to loosen my tongue.
ANTONY DIMMOND
No torture was required to loosen
your wife/not-your-wifes tongue.
(off Hannibal's look)
She overestimated my affection for
the genuine Dr. Fell. Clearly, you
found him as distasteful as I did.
HANNIBAL
On the contrary.
ANTONY DIMMOND
We can twist ourselves into all
manner of uncomfortable positions
just to maintain appearances, with
or without a breaking wheel.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 34.
HANNIBAL
Are you here to twist me into an
uncomfortable position?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Im here to help you untwist... to
our mutual benefit.
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia has donned a coat and is carrying a small suitcase,
hurrying toward the door. She reaches for the doorknob and
stops short. Its starting to turn...
The door opens and Hannibal ushers Antony Dimmond inside. He
averts his eyes away from Bedelias gaze.
POV FROM THE HALL
As Hannibal slowly shuts the door on anyones escape.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 35.
ACT FIVE
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER -- SLOW MOTION
VIOLENT SHADOWS dance across her face. We are in the fog of
Bedelias experience, her hearing numbed by the wash of her
circulatory system and a HIGH-PITCHED RINGING intermittently
broken by STACCATO BURSTS of a terrified heart.
CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BACK
The violent shadows continue their SLOW DANCE across Bedelia
and the wall behind her as Hannibal brutally and efficiently
dispatches Antony Dimmond to the afterlife. Her suitcase is
next to her, her coat draped over her chair. We are --
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - NIGHT
Bedelia is unflinching despite jagged breaths rattling at the
back of her throat. Hannibal stands over Dimmonds corpse.
HANNIBAL
Observe or participate.
The words dont immediately land with Bedelia, still stunned
at what she has witnessed. She slowly looks at Hannibal:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What?
HANNIBAL
Are you, in this very moment,
observing or participating?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Observing.
The corners of Hannibals lips curl ever so slightly.
HANNIBAL
If you can see me, I can see you.
Hannibal leans over Dimmonds broken corpse in a FRAME
reminiscent of him leaning over Bedelias dead patient.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
You say youre observing, but this,
this is participation, Bedelia.
(off her look)
Did you know what he would do when
you asked him to help you? Id
prefer you answer honestly.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 36.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
This always goes better if one of
us is honest.
HANNIBAL
Have you been honest with yourself?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was curious.
HANNIBAL
You were curious what would happen.
You were curious what Mr. Dimmond
would do. What I would do.
(then)
Did you anticipate our thoughts?
Counter-thoughts? Rationalizations?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes.
HANNIBAL
(re: Dimmonds body)
Is this what you expected?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(a moment, then)
Yes.
HANNIBAL
Thats participation.
Hannibal crosses to Bedelias suitcase, picking it up.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Whatve you gotten yourself into,
Bedelia?
(off her silence)
Shall I hang up your coat?
Bedelia absently hands him her coat. Hannibal moves into the
bedroom. Through the open door we can see him place
Bedelias suitcase on the bed and begin to unpack it.
OFF Bedelia staring at Mr. Dimmonds body...
CLOSE ON A BEAUTIFUL VINTAGE LEATHER STEAMER TRUNK
CAMERA reveals TWO PORTERS carry the trunk toward...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 37.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - PLATFORM - DAY
Hannibal ENTERS FRAME behind the two porters and the trunk en
route to the awaiting TRAIN CAR. Dressed in an elegant travel
coat, he strikes a dashing figure as he boards the train.
INT. TRAIN CAR - DAY
Hannibal shares a private compartment with his steamer trunk.
As CAMERA PUSHES IN, Hannibals gaze drifts to the window as
a stunning Italian landscape blurs past...
SNAILS
They topple into a hot pan, a brandy flamb erupts around
them. As the fire starts to fade, a shower of white wine
douses the flame and we EXTINGUISH TO BLACK.
CAMERA PULLS OUT OF A LARGE AFRICAN SNAIL SHELL
The tiny snails from the cochlear garden are tumbling out
onto the dinner table, beautifully cooked. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTERS HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK to reveal Hannibal and Gideon
at the table, flanking the large snail shell. Surrounding
the mouth of the shell are various oysters in the half-shell.
HANNIBAL
Would you rather I extended you the
same kindness as the escargot?
DR. GIDEON
Eating me without my knowledge? I
find knowing to be much more
powerful than not knowing. Why do
you think I'm allowing this?
Hannibal studies his dinner companion, appreciating his bite.
HANNIBAL
Why do you think I'm allowing this?
DR. GIDEON
Snails aren't the only creatures
who prefer to eat in company.
Gideon forks a snail in its shell, which is secured
decoratively so he can use one arm, and pops it in his mouth.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
I'm fascinated to know how you will
feel when all this... happens to you.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 38.
EXT. PALERMO - NORMAN PALACE - DAWN
Time-lapse establishing.
INT. NORMAN CHAPEL - DAWN
Ornate, inspiring and severe.
Morning light glances down from the stained-glass windows,
casting colored pools and dense shadows.
CAMERA prowls the aisles between the rows of pews and finds A
GARGANTUAN HUMAN HEART -- not the organ itself, but a
representation, skillfully molded from the CORPSE OF ANTONY
DIMMOND.
The torso is tucked into a fetal position, hands and feet
have been cut off mid-forearm/mid-shin. The arms and legs
broken and bent to mimic the ventricles and aorta. Dimmonds
head has been removed.
The dark red blood streaking the body and the pallor of the
dead skin create the purplish hues of a recently-removed organ.
The heart is pierced by three swords pushed through the
body at angles, to both secure the organic sculpture in place
and provide a tripod to lift it from the ground.
It almost appears to be a horrifying brazier awaiting flame.
As the sun rises, the multicolored shafts of light beaming
through the stained-glass windows spotlight Hannibals
creation in all its glory...
OFF the tableau, placed amid the gorgeous light, in a
monument to God and mans adulation of him, we...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 39.
Antipasto
Written by
Bryan Fuller
&
Steve Lightfoot
Directed by
Vincenzo Natali
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #301 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2015 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot 
HANNIBAL
"Antipasto"
TEASER
BLACK
A PANNING LIGHT reveals a HUMAN FACE frozen in torment. Then
a HAND grasping for freedom. Our light now reveals the
TORSO, lean and stretched in agony.
WIDER -- our light casts across a vertical group of HUMAN
BODIES, and as we move over it, the bodies ANIMATE, writhing
in torment.
REVERSE WIDE -- to blackness, and our light is now a
PINPOINT. Slowly enlarging as it comes toward us. And a LOW
DRONE accompanies it, indistinct, but unsettling.
The circle of light grows, and MORPHS into an EYE,
unblinking, as our drone increases, and then our eye again
MORPHS, becoming the SPINNING FRONT WHEEL of a motorcycle.
CLOSE ON A GLOVED HAND as it works the throttle, and the
drone PITCHES HIGHER as the bike changes gear.
ON OUR TORTURED HUMAN FORMS as they writhe against one another
-- and then, IMAGE IS SPLIT by the motorcycle's front wheel as
it splashes through the PUDDLE in which they were reflected.
CLOSE ON WATER DROPLETS as they are launched into the air,
like bubbles, a tortured soul reflecting, trapped, in each as
they spin through the air and turn BLOOD RED.
CLOSE ON THE REFLECTIVE BLACK VISOR of our bike's RIDER --
Figures writhe within the margins of the glass.
REVERSE -- WIDE -- behind the motorbike, now DWARFED IN FRAME
as it rides toward an IMMENSE PAIR OF GATES -- Rodin's Gates
of Hell, the sculpted bodies, caught in torment, adorning
each side.
REVERSE AGAIN -- and now we are back on our rider's visor --
the gates fill the visor, and as the rider gets closer, we
watch in the reflection as the gates BEGIN TO OPEN --
And through the opening space we see PARIS OPENING UP BEYOND.
The bike speeds through the gates, sending the tortured
figures into a new frenzy, and then he is through and the
reflection is now the frenzy of a PARIS NIGHT STREET...
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
The motorcycle -- a TRIUMPH BONNEVILLE -- swerves and cuts
between two cars like a knife through butter.
The Bonneville dances between lanes as the rider throws his
weight from side to side.
We enjoy his progress; his skill and prowess as he owns the
road.
CLOSE ON the reflective visor of his helmet, the world beyond
zooming by, reflected in the black glass.
His gloved hands on the throttle; his foot as it kicks the
powerful bike through the gears.
The Bonneville BRAKES to a sudden halt. The rider gets off.
Dressed in Belstaff. He removes the helmet. For a brief
second, those bodies writhe across it again -- there, and then
gone -- and we see the rider now: it is HANNIBAL LECTER.
As we haven't seen him before. Looser, longer hair; a little
rougher; a man free of responsibilities.
INT. PARIS PARTY VENUE - NIGHT
PALE YELLOW LIQUID fizzes into a glass flute. A hand takes the
champagne and moves from a bar, and we go with it, revealing --
A PARTY CROWD -- under a banner: "Bon Voyage, Roman Fell."
It is a well-heeled leaving party for DR. ROMAN FELL, a tall,
lean man of 50, sporting a fine academic's beard. He holds
court in the center of the room. He loves the attention of a
crowd of young acolytes and well-wishers.
We move through the throng, toward him. As people part in front
of us, we REVERSE to reveal this is Hannibal Lecter's POV.
His eyes fixed on Roman Fell.
STAY ON Hannibal as he moves lithely through the crowd,
bodies between him and us, he is there and then gone -- like
a tiger moving through the long grass. His eyes never
leaving his prey. Appraising, calculating...
A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN crosses his path, makes eye contact.
Hannibal returns it. Raises his glass.
She smiles, but Hannibal inclines his head and passes on the
invitation to linger. Steps around her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 2.
ANTONY DIMMOND, 40s, tall, lean, somewhat louche-looking --
his clothes expensive, but old and worn -- darts suddenly at
a WAITRESS with a tray of champagne, snaffles two glasses.
He tosses one back quickly, then notices Hannibal noticing.
ANTONY DIMMOND
(re: his two glasses)
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
(then)
Antony Dimmond. I'd offer a hand,
but--
HANNIBAL
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Do you know Roman well?
Dimmond clocks Hannibal's eyes wandering back toward Dr. Fell
amid a circle of people.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
You were staring with the thinlyveiled disdain of a man who does.
I was his TA at Cambridge. He was
insufferable even then.
Dimmond finishes the second flute of champagne and puts it on a
passing tray. Grabs two more and hands Hannibal one of them.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Have you read his books? They're
terrible. You know they're
terrible, but you're too polite to
say. Blink if you agree.
(off his blink)
See.
Dimmond pulls a weathered paperback from his coat pocket.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
That doesn't stop him squatting
over a keyboard and depositing a
fresh one every six to eight
months. It has taken me six to
eight months to write one line.
HANNIBAL
Why?
Dimmond stares at Hannibal a moment, as if the answer is
abundantly clear, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 3.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Poetry is hard. Was too hard for
Roman. Easier for him to slide into
academia and dissect the efforts of
others than stand by his own words.
HANNIBAL
One can appreciate another's words
without dissecting them. Though,
on occasion, dissection is the only
thing that will do.
OFF Hannibal's glance in Dr. Fell's direction...
CUT TO:
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
Dr. Roman Fell walks home, merrily drunk, excited by the
prospect of his new adventure.
Behind him, our Bonneville idles slowly across the street.
As Hannibal is putting on his helmet:
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir.
Dr. Fell is reflected in the black maw of Hannibal's visor as
Hannibal slowly follows him, then passes him by. CAMERA
follows Dr. Fell as Hannibal's Bonneville speeds away.
EXT./INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
Dr. Fell enters his building and heads up the stairs. He
stops short when he sees Hannibal standing outside his door.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir?
CUT TO:
INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
BLOOD RED WINE SPLASHES up the sides of a glass.
Hands place an OPERA RECORD on a turntable. CLOSE ON the
needle as it drops.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 4.
BUTTER melts in a pan.
LIVER is tossed in with a sizzle... a dash of brandy is added
and flares into flame.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's knife and fork as it slices through the
liver on his plate.
A blush of blood STAINS the juices on the plate. He brings
it to his lips. Chews.
Delicious.
CUT TO:
PUSH IN OMINOUSLY
On the inside of the closed apartment door.
CLOSER and CLOSER till the handle turns and it opens toward
us -- and a stylishly-dressed woman enters.
MRS. FELL!
She hears the opera and smiles.
Moves toward the dining room.
She halts in the doorway.
CAMERA moves around her to register the cause of her confusion.
MRS. FELL'S POV
Hannibal Lecter sits at the table, linen and cutlery
immaculately placed. Savoring his food, a nice Bordeaux and
the music.
Hannibal smiles up at her.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 5.
ACT ONE
DARKNESS
A REFLECTIVE SHAPE moves toward CAMERA. It is --
A LARGE SILVER DOME.
It covers a sizeable serving platter that is moving through a
darkened room until, finally, the REFLECTION OF ABEL GIDEON
bows across its surface. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
ABEL GIDEON sits at the beautifully-appointed table; he has a
drip in one arm and a chest monitor. Under the table, we see
that Gideon is now missing both legs at the thigh. (NOTE:
This takes place between Eps. #206 and 207.)
The silver dome turns and Gideon watches his reflection SLIDE
DOWN the length of the platter. The platter is lifted from
the sidecar and placed in the middle of the dinner table.
The large silver dome rises off the platter as if by unseen
hands floating somewhere in the darkness. Underneath the
dome and further unveiled by a SILKY CLOUD OF SMOKE:
GIDEON'S LEG
From hip to ankle, beautifully roasted with SUGAR CANE QUILLS
sticking out of the flesh in a pleasing grid pattern. It's
mounted on a plank, like a long whole ham.
DR. GIDEON
You really are the Devil.
Certainly seem to enjoy it. You
have a click in your hoof.
FROM GIDEON'S POV -- HANNIBAL
He appears to MATERIALIZE out of the THINNING MIST rising off
the bed of smoking sprigs of thyme.
HANNIBAL
The Devil has been a yoke on the
neck of humanity since we first
began to think and dream.
(then)
I for a much shorter time.
Gideon takes a deep, appreciative breath.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 6.
DR. GIDEON
You admit the yoke.
(then)
Smells like candy apples. And
thyme. You smoked me in thyme.
HANNIBAL
Smoked. Glazed. Slow-cooked.
Served on a sugar cane quill. You
will be falling off the bone.
Hannibal plucks a sugar cane quill, pulling out a MEDALLION
OF MEAT from Gideon's severed leg, like a Popsicle stick, and
placing it on his guest's plate.
DR. GIDEON
Well, of course.
(then)
And with these rarified dishes you
so thoughtfully prepare...
(then)
...do we all taste different?
HANNIBAL
Everyone has their flavor.
Gideon's eyes narrow, not giving Hannibal the satisfaction of
seeing him impressed one way or another.
DR. GIDEON
Cannibalism was standard behavior
among our ancestors. Missing link
is only missing because we ate him.
HANNIBAL
This isn't cannibalism, Abel. It's
only cannibalism if we're equals.
DR. GIDEON
It's only cannibalism if you eat
me. But you feel this is just the
natural order of things? Everybody
gets et?
HANNIBAL
Be he fat or be he lean.
DR. GIDEON
My last leg standing across the
table from me, and I still wrestle
with the urges to fight or flee.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 7.
HANNIBAL
It's called "terminal restlessness."
The body fills with adrenaline and
feels compelled to go-go-go.
DR. GIDEON
"Go-go-go"? I've already got up
and gone. This is posthumous.
HANNIBAL
You're not dead yet, Abel. You
still have to eat.
DR. GIDEON
No, I don't.
Gideon takes a bite of the medallion of meat before him.
It's truly something special, but once again, he doesn't give
Hannibal the satisfaction. Hannibal smiles, regardless.
Gideon is about to take another bite, but pauses to glance
around the beautifully-appointed room and at his devilish host.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
At this point, there is absolutely
nothing I have to do. But I don't
want to spoil the fairy tale, do I?
You and your gingerbread house.
HANNIBAL
Let it be a fairy tale, then.
(then)
Once upon a time...
OFF Hannibal...
GRAND MUSIC begins to rise, taking us to --
INT. FLORENCE BALLROOM - NIGHT
A dazzlingly-dressed couple as they sweep ACROSS FRAME in a
stylish waltz.
It could be a scene from Cinderella's dreams... The glitter
of jewelry and champagne. The dash of black tie and
ballgowns; the dance floor filled with couples sweeping in
graceful patterns across it.
CAMERA moves through the dancing figures to find a
particularly-elegant couple and stays with them as they swoop
across the floor... They waltz around CAMERA, faces hidden
from us as they move in perfect union, until the music comes
to an end and the man dips his partner low to the ground --
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 8.
Revealing Hannibal and a stunning BEDELIA DU MAURIER... a
prince and his princess. He smiles down at her, both
somewhat breathless.
A beat, and then he pulls her back to him.
HANNIBAL
Bellissima.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
Hannibal snags them both champagne off a passing tray.
SOGLIATO (O.S.)
Dr. Fell, I hope you translate as
well as you waltz.
SOGLIATO is a smooth, oily Italian, late 30s. Impeccably
dressed. An academic who wears his ego like armor. Sogliato
kisses Bedelia's hand and then shakes Hannibal's. He stands
with SIGNOR and SIGNORA ALBIZZI -- president of the museum's
governing board.
SIGNOR ALBIZZI
Our new appointee was confirmed by
the board after close questioning.
SOGLIATO
You've examined him in medieval
Italian, and I will not deny his
language is admirable.
Bedelia watches this exchange. Intrigued. Aware others in
the crowd are observing. As is Sogliato...
HANNIBAL
Thank you.
SOGLIATO
For a straniero.
Sogliato smiles at the audience now ear-wigging shamelessly.
Bedelia is watching Hannibal, the way his eyes go dead for a
second at the insult before he smiles.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Are you familiar with the
personalities of pre-Renaissance
Florence? I think not. (a smile for Bedelia)
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 9.
(MORE)
Dr. Fell might hold in his hand --
in his non-Italian hand -- a note
from Dante Alighieri himself. Would
he recognize it? I think not.
Bedelia intercedes:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato, would you do me
the honor of a dance?
Bedelia offers her arm. Keen to lead him away. Hannibal
noting her intention. As they turn away:
HANNIBAL "Allegro mi sembrava Amor tenendo /
meo core in mano, e ne le braccia
avea / madonna involta in un drappo
dormendo. / Poi la svegliava, e
d'esto core ardendo / lei paventosa
umilmente pascea; / appreso gir lo
ne vedea piangendo."
Some of those listening applaud loudly at this stirring
recital. Sogliato hates it. Bedelia smiles at Hannibal.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dante's first sonnet. It
fascinated Cavalcanti. The eating
of the heart is a powerful image.
Hannibal doesn't have to be smug; Signor Albizzi is smug for
him. Off that smugness:
SOGLIATO
If he's such an expert on Dante,
let him lecture on Dante, to the
Studiolo. Let him face them.
(then)
Extempore.
The reaction of the crowd says this is a strong challenge.
Hannibal merely inclines his head.
HANNIBAL
I'm happy to sing for my supper.
He holds Sogliato's gaze. Battle met.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato.
Bedelia looks to Sogliato who takes her hand to dance.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 10.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Hannibal smiles at Bedelia who doesn't return his smile.
EXT. FLORENCE - NIGHT
CAMERA moves across the city as the evening gathers and the
streets empty, the fan pattern of the cobbles shining in a
drizzle. CAMERA finds A SILHOUETTED MAN on a balcony.
CLOSE ON HANNIBAL
As we watch, his face becomes washed with amber, as if under
liquid, flowing and indistinct.
We are now --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
STAY ON this Hannibal in amber, framed within the proscenium
arch of his balcony, looking out over Florence...
HANNIBAL
We are among the palaces built six
hundred years ago by the merchant
princes, the kingmakers and
connivers of Renaissance Florence.
...until Bedelia reaches for the glass of brandy he is
offering her and breaks the illusion.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
As connivers of modern Florence.
Hannibal looks out over the city, considering its romance.
HANNIBAL
I've found a peace here that I
would preserve. I've killed hardly
anybody during our residence.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You created the vacancy at the
Palazzo Capponi by removing the
former curator.
HANNIBAL
A simple process requiring a few
seconds' work on the old man and a
modest outlay for two bags of cement.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You no longer have ethical
problems, Hannibal. You have
aesthetical ones.
(re: her zipper)
Could you?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 11.
She turns and Hannibal stands behind her and slowly unzips
her dress, revealing her bare back.
HANNIBAL
Ethics become aesthetics.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You seem more concerned with making
appearances than maintaining them.
HANNIBAL
If this is about my position at the
Palazzo, once the path was cleared,
I won the job fairly. On my merits.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes, even the most-contentious
Florentines can't resist the verse
of Dante ringing off frescoed walls.
HANNIBAL
One contentious Florentine can.
Bedelia crosses into:
INT. HANNIBAL'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY/BEDELIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
A large, freestanding CAST-IRON BATH in there. Bedelia
enters and turns the ornate taps. Water thunders out. She
turns to see Hannibal in the doorway.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Have you given serious thought to
eating Professor Sogliato?
HANNIBAL
My killing Sogliato now would not
preserve the peace.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Your peace is without morality.
HANNIBAL
Morality doesn't exist. Only morale.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How you feel today.
HANNIBAL
How do you feel today?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I still believe I'm in conscious
control of my actions. Given your
history, that's a good day.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 12.
OFF Bedelia's soft, polite smile...
CLOSE ON A RUSHING TAP
It is turned off and the steaming torrent becomes a DRIP. The
drip sends RINGS spreading to the deep sides of the bathtub.
Bedelia lies back and IMMERSES herself under the water. The
surface six inches from her mouth. Like Ophelia lying under
the surface of the lake... HOLDING HER BREATH -- A SINGLE
BUBBLE escapes her lips and slowly pops on the surface. She
stares upward. Slowly, her eyes close.
Around her, the water DARKENS TO BLACK, as if the bottom of
the bath has fallen away to reveal an ENDLESS DEPTH. And now
Bedelia is SLOWLY SINKING, horizontally sliding downward into
the Stygian dark...
BEDELIA'S POV -- amid the darkness, GNARLED ROOTS clamber
around one another, slick and wet amid the water...
LOWER and LOWER she sinks, beyond this level, into the next.
Until finally she comes to the BOTTOM and her body comes to
rest in a black silt that RISES AROUND HER in SWIRLS and
WISPS, as if welcoming her into its grasp.
ON BEDELIA'S CLOSED EYES
Another SOLITARY BUBBLE rises from her lips, and we RISE AWAY
from her to follow its progress.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
An area of ARTISAN FOOD STORES -- the streets thronged with
shoppers. CAMERA finds Bedelia among them, moving through
the crowd, a distant focus in her eyes.
CLOSE ON BEDELIA
A POLICE CONSTABLE comes down the street toward her. He
smiles, tips his hat to the beautiful lady. She nods, her
smile fading the moment he passes.
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
An elegant Florentine fine grocer filled with fine wines and
exotic cheeses. Bedelia approaches the CLERK at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
CUT TO:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 13.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
Bedelia sits on a bench, her shopping bag from Vera dal 1926
next to her. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal...
...she sits on the platform of a train station.
A CCTV camera sits above her, covering the length of the
platform. Bedelia looks up at it and then back to the TRAIN
which is about to depart. Its open carriage doors are an
invitation... Will she take it?
OFF Bedelia...
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 14.
ACT TWO
EXT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PUSHES IN as headlights roll up the driveway and
across the siding of the house as a car approaches.
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - FOYER/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA moves through the darkened hall until FRAMING AN
EXTREME CLOSE-UP ON THE FRONT DOORKNOB.
The SOUND OF A KEY in the door --
Breaks the quiet. LIGHT SPILLS in as the door opens.
Bedelia enters.
She turns to the living room as CAMERA reveals almost every
piece of her furniture is beneath a drop cloth, protected
against dust for an indefinite period of time -- just as she
left it before she fled Hannibal and the FBI.
(NOTE: Bedelia has just come from the FBIs interrogation
room, as seen in Ep. #212, Tome-wan.)
Bedelia takes in the shroud of the chairs, walking the rooms
periphery, searching for some sense of herself. She pauses.
AN EMPTY CHAIR
Where she left a glass-cut perfume bottle for Hannibal weeks
earlier. Its gone. She considers its absence, then:
CLOSE ON THE SPIKE OF A CORKSCREW
It TWISTS through the cork in a bottle of wine. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia opens the bottle of wine and pours herself a glass.
She reacts, twists the bottle upward to stem the flow. One
last drop of wine falls into the glass and she listens.
CAMERA FOLLOWS BEDELIA
She moves into the hall as a distinct sound grows louder and
louder until she recognizes it. The shower is running.
INT. BEDELIA'S HOUSE - BEDROOM/BATHROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
She moves into her bedroom, toward the open door of her
bathroom through which she can see bloody clothes strewn
across the floor and a MAN IN HER SHOWER.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 15.
HANNIBAL
He stands naked in Bedelias shower, blood thinly streaming
from his various cuts and wounds as water washes them clean.
He twists the pressure valve closed until the water only drips.
Hannibal steps out of the shower, allowing the water to bead
off of him, before grabbing a towel to dry himself.
There is a familiar CLICK of a gun cocking and Hannibal
realizes he is no longer alone.
HANNIBALS POV -- THE SHADOWS
He slowly pushes the bathroom door open, casting light into
the bedroom and finally illuminating Bedelia sitting calmly,
holding a gun in one hand and a glass of wine in the other.
BEDELIAS POV -- HANNIBAL
He stands naked, silhouetted in the doorway.
HANNIBAL
May I get dressed?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You may.
Hannibal lets his towel drop and pulls on his underwear.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER (CONTD)
What have you done, Hannibal?
HANNIBAL
Ive taken off my person suit.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You let them see you.
HANNIBAL
I let them see enough.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How does that feel? Being seen?
Hannibal shrugs on his shirt and buttons it.
HANNIBAL
Youre not in a position to ask,
Dr. Du Maurier. You ended our
patient-psychiatrist relationship.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 16.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I lacked the appropriate skills to
continue your treatment.
HANNIBAL
I never found you to be lacking.
She studies him a moment, then:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im sorry I didnt leave you with a
suitable substitute for therapy.
(then)
Is Will Graham still alive?
Hannibal goes still. A quiet moment as he curbs his emotions.
HANNIBAL
Will Graham was not a suitable
substitute for therapy.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What was he?
HANNIBAL
Is this professional curiosity?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Almost entirely.
HANNIBAL
Do you trust me?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not entirely.
(then)
Trust is driven by an emotional
sense of what to do, and a very
conscious sense what not to do.
HANNIBAL
Are you taking into account my
beliefs about your intentions?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My intentions?
HANNIBAL
Human motivation can be little more
than lucid greed.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Greed and blind optimism.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 17.
HANNIBAL
Youre optimistic I wont kill you.
OFF Bedelia as she smoothly un-cocks the gun in her hand,
sets it aside and takes a sip of wine.
PRE-LAP A SUDDEN SQUEALING --
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
The hurly-burly of the Paris train about to depart. Lastminute PASSENGERS jumping aboard.
CONDUCTORS make their last calls.
Train doors SLAM.
The SIGNAL LIGHTS change.
The Paris train pulls out of the station slowly, revealing
Bedelia still sitting on her bench, watching it go...
CCTV -- looking down on Bedelia as she looks up at the
camera... looking anything but optimistic.
MUSIC RISES over her, taking us to --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - DAY
A darkened room. The music plays as Hannibal works on his
speech to the Studiolo, rapt and transported.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's face and hands, light flickering over
them as he works with slides and a projector.
Hannibal studies paintings and poems, writing notes, struck
by their power. Absorbed in a world of beauty and intellect.
Happy.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - CORRIDOR - DAY
ON HANNIBAL
Smiling, happy with life, as he walks down a vaulted
corridor, light and shadow alternating on his face as he
passes the windows...
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY/FOYER - DAY
He comes down a wide flight of stone stairs and into the foyer.
Bright sunlight shines in from the outside.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 18.
Hannibal walks toward it, the LENS FLARING as he becomes a
silhouette, his face going to darkness as the bright sunlight
of the doorframe envelopes him.
MATCH CUT TO:
EXT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - DAY
As Hannibal emerges onto the steps and looks across the busy
square.
ANTONY DIMMOND (O.S.)
Hello! Bonjour!
Hannibal does not realize this is directed at him, but as he
heads down the stairs, a hand grabs his arm.
ON HANNIBAL -- for a second his eyes threaten violence -- but
then he turns to see:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sporting stubble and wild hair. He seems absentminded, but
his eyes are sharp.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
We met in Paris a few months back.
Sorry, didn't mean to startle you,
but here I was and then, there you
were... I never forget a face...
HANNIBAL
Antony Dimmond.
Dimmond beams with pleasure.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Nice to be remembered.
HANNIBAL
You're hard to forget.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What are you doing in Florence?
Are you working with Roman?
HANNIBAL
Dr. Fell?
ANTONY DIMMOND
I heard he took an appointment at
the Capponi library.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 19.
ON HANNIBAL -- Dimmond is astute beneath his manner. Doesn't
miss much, it seems.
HANNIBAL
Yes, he's the new curator and
translator of the Palazzo Capponi.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Evidently, the last one eloped with
a woman or someone's money or both.
Hannibal is cool.
HANNIBAL
That's the commonly-held belief.
(then)
You just missed Roman.
Dimmond looks crestfallen.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Did I? Was hoping to take the piss.
Hannibal studies Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
Spare the piss for the time being.
If you're free, my wife and I would
love to have you for dinner.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 20.
ACT THREE
CLOSE ON A SNAIL
It moves at a snail's pace across a slick, fleshy surface.
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal it is one snail among dozens.
We are --
INT. COCHLEAR GARDEN - DARK (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK until it reveals a plump snail
feasting on the tip of a human finger.
The snails are crawling across the flesh of an arm resting in
a pool of wine marinade, also consumed by dozens of snails.
Fingers of the living reach INTO FRAME and pluck the plump
snail from the fingers of the marinating severed arm.
CLOSE ON A PLUMP SNAIL
CAMERA RACK FOCUSES onto Hannibal studying the snail as it
crawls across his fingers. He's dressed in a three-piece
plaid suit and an apron, harvesting his cochlear garden.
HANNIBAL
Listen.
He holds his breath for a moment and we hear dozens of little
RASP-LIKE TONGUES CHEWING on Gideon's severed arm.
Reveal Gideon.
He is listening, but not as impressed as Hannibal -- as it is
his flesh the snails are chewing. He sits on a motorized
wheelchair. His left arm is missing below the shoulder. The
fresh amputation wound is tightly dressed.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
They prefer eating in company.
Hannibal plucks snails from their moist roosts, collecting
them in an elegant glass cylinder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
I've kept cochlear gardens since I
was a young man, fattening snails on
herbs and vine leaves. Like all of
us, what they eat greatly influences
and enhances their flavor.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 21.
DR. GIDEON
When I'm not eating myself, you
wish me to be eating oysters.
Drinking sweet wines, snacking on
acorns. All to make me tastier?
HANNIBAL
Oh yes.
(re: the snails)
And you are making them tastier.
DR. GIDEON
And I you. Imagine what you must
taste like. Won't be long before
someone takes a bite out of you.
Hannibal notes Gideon's tone.
HANNIBAL
When agitated, sea snails produce a
purple dye. Its color won't fade.
Becomes brighter with weathering.
(then)
You're becoming brighter, Abel.
Dying hasn't dulled you one bit.
Gideon politely turns his attention back to the snails:
DR. GIDEON
The snails are certainly having a
lovely experience, fattened on me
in a red-wine marinade. They have
no idea they're going to be eaten.
(then)
We do.
CLOSE ON AN OYSTER SHELL
CAMERA crawls across its surface. A SHUCKING BLADE ENTERS
FRAME and splits the shell, at its hinge, with a twist,
removing the lid and revealing the oyster.
The oyster in its cup is placed on a bed of ice, SPINNING to
reveal it is joining a dozen oysters fanned across a platter.
A woman's hand ENTERS FRAME and takes an oyster.
CAMERA follows the oyster to reveal Bedelia. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Bedelia sits with Hannibal and Antony Dimmond at the table.
She is hiding her fears well, surrounded by a tray of oysters
and nuts. Hannibal at ease, a platter of meats between him and
Dimmond, who enjoys the hospitality, pours himself more wine.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 22.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(to Dimmond)
How well do you know the Fells?
She shoots the oyster in her imperceptibly-trembling hand.
ANTONY DIMMOND
As well as anybody. Which'd be not
really. Lydia a friend of yours?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not really.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I'd be surprised to hear she had
one. We share a mutual detestation.
She disapproves of my disapproval.
HANNIBAL
What do you disapprove of?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Roman, mainly. Lydia isn't quite
bright enough to see I'm just
intimidated. Roman does, of course.
How he loves to strike fear.
HANNIBAL
Dante wrote that fear is almost as
bitter as death.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Dante wasn't dead when he wrote it.
HANNIBAL
Are you traveling alone, Antony?
The question sends a shudder down Bedelia's spine.
ANTONY DIMMOND
It's the only way I travel.
HANNIBAL
Roman is speaking to the Studiolo
Friday. On Dante. You should come.
If Bedelia had been chewing, she would have choked.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sounds appropriately hellish.
Dimmond clocks Bedelia as she reaches for another oyster.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 23.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Are you avoiding meats?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I'm trying not to eat anything with
a central nervous system.
Dimmond calls out the food in her corner of the table:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Oysters, acorns and Marsala. That's
what ancient Romans would feed
animals to improve their flavor.
Bedelia does her best to hide her realization, steadies
herself. Hannibal watches her very closely as she digests.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My husband has quite a
sophisticated palette. He's
particular about how I taste.
Bedelia shoots another oyster back. Hannibal stares. An
uncomfortably-long beat as Dimmond considers that. Finally:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Is it that kind of party?
HANNIBAL
It is not that kind of party.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No, it really isn't.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Shame. You were both suddenly so
fascinating.
HARD CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Dimmond stands in the open doorway, shrugging on his coat as
Hannibal and Bedelia see him out.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Buonasera.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Buonasera.
HANNIBAL
Buonasera.
Hannibal closes the door as Dimmond walks away.
A moment, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 24.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(curious)
You let him go.
HANNIBAL
What would you have me do, Bedelia?
As Bedelia ponders Hannibal's question...
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
Bedelia walks down the street.
CAMERA follows her from across the street, keeping pace.
ANGLE ON ANTONY DIMMOND
Also walking the streets. Moving through the crowds,
following Bedelia.
INTERCUT their progress.
Bedelia moves with purpose. Resolved. Anxious.
Dimmond moves with greater freedom, not a care in the world.
Is he stalking her?
Bedelia crosses the street, narrowly avoiding a car that
screeches to a halt before it would have run her down.
Dimmond turns to the sound to see Bedelia disappearing into:
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
Navigating her way through the pastas and hams, Bedelia
approaches the clerk at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
As the clerk prepares the order, Antony strides across the
grocery store, directly toward Bedelia.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Florentines say Vera dal, with its
wealth of cheeses and truffles,
smells like the feet of God.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Hello, Mr. Dimmond.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 25.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I don't know if it's you, me or God,
but there's something in the air.
The clerk hands Bedelia her bag.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Dinner was lovely. I must confess
to a certain abstract curiosity
about your husband... Mrs. Fell.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(stares, then)
Good-bye, Mr. Dimmond.
Bedelia takes the bag and exits. Dimmond follows.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
CAMERA leads Bedelia out of Vera dal 1926 as Dimmond stands
in the doorway behind her, watching her go a moment, then:
ANTONY DIMMOND
I asked one of the scholars at the
Palazzo to point me in the
direction of Dr. Fell. He raised
one craggy old finger and pointed
it directly at your husband. I
thought the old codger made a
mistake, but there was no mistake.
Bedelia keeps walking. Dimmond quickens his pace to catch up.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Even in the teeth of evidence,
you're just going to walk away.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Those aren't the teeth you should
be concerned about.
Bedelia tries to control the tremble building inside her.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Where are Roman and Lydia?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I don't know.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Does your husband know?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 26.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He's not my husband. He is
something entirely Other.
ANTONY DIMMOND
The man is curating an exposition
of Atrocious Torture Instruments.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
The essence of the worst of the
human spirit is not found in the
iron maiden or the whetted edge.
Elemental ugliness, Mr. Dimmond, is
found in the faces of the crowd.
(then)
However you think you're going to
manipulate this situation to your
advantage, think again.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Bluebeard's wife. Secrets you're
not to know, yet sworn to keep.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
If I'm to be Bluebeard's wife, I
would prefer to be the last one.
(then)
Unless you believe you are beyond
harm, go to the police.
ANTONY DIMMOND
You want to be caught.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 27.
ACT FOUR
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PULLS BACK to find her lying flat on her back, covered
in blood. Shes breathing heavy, trembling.
There is a faint gurgling, choking sound that slowly begins to
register on her conscious mind through the sharp HUM of her
ringing ears and THUMPING of her circulatory system. She turns
and CAMERA reveals, lying on the floor next to her, is...
A DYING MAN
Hes dazed, choking on the blood overflowing from his mouth,
eyes rolling back until only the whites are visible.
He stiffens. After a long, horrible moment, he dies.
Bedelia stares, her jagged breath rattles in her ears, heart
racing. She sits up, unable to take her eyes off the dead
man lying next to her.
She raises a hand to brush the matted hair from her face, and
stops. Her hand looks like it has been dunked in a bucket of
blood up to her mid-forearm.
QUICK CUT TO:
MERE MOMENTS EARLIER
Bedelia straddles her PATIENT, holding him by the collar of
his shirt with one hand, the other hand is jammed down his
throat up to the mid-forearm. His eyes bulge.
BACK TO:
BEDELIA
She rises INTO FRAME, standing over her dead patient, and
CAMERA reveals Hannibal standing in the hallway behind her.
HANNIBAL
Bedelia.
Bedelia barely startles, turning to see Hannibal behind her.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He attacked me.
HANNIBAL
Is that your blood?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 28.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No.
Hannibal crouches next to the dead patient and examines his
hands -- theyre clean, free of blood or tissue.
HANNIBAL
You were... defending yourself?
A slow, guilty nod.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was reckless. Reckless violence
is a poor survival mechanism.
HANNIBAL
This wasnt reckless violence. It
was a controlled use of force.
Bedelia is haunted by the truth, tries to reassure herself:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not confused. My imagination
isnt filling in the gaps. I know
what happened here.
HANNIBAL
Do you?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He was your patient before he was
mine, Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
He died under your care.
(then)
Aggression can be an effective
means of maintaining order when
dealing with an unruly patient.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not an aggressive person.
HANNIBAL
Im sure you reacted with a level
of aggression that was uniquely
appropriate for this encounter.
(then)
But you werent defending yourself.
Hannibal stares, seeing right through her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 29.
A SERIES OF CLOSE SHOTS ON -- BEDELIA:
She unbuttons her bloody blouse, slipping it off her
shoulders and peeling it down her abdomen, exposing her
bloodstained undergarments. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - BATHROOM/BEDROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia is silhouetted in the doorway, much like Hannibal
was. CAMERA reveals Hannibal watching her from the shadows
of the bedroom, much like Bedelia was watching Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
I can help you tell the version of
events you want to be told. I can
help you, if you ask me to.
She opens the shower door and turns the nozzle. The
showerhead sprinkles and surges to life.
Bedelia raises her bloodstained hand to the shower stream,
allowing the red to wash away in rivulets down her arm.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
As Hannibals helpful grin starts to dawn...
ON BEDELIA
She stands under the shower, the water washes over her.
STREAMS OF WATER from the showerhead slow until they become
BEADS SUSPENDED IN MIDAIR above Bedelias upturned face.
MATCH CUT TO:
SCATTERED MOTES OF DUST
They float through the SLANT OF LIGHT cutting through the
darkness over Bedelias upturned face. We are now --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT (PRESENT)
Bedelia is beautifully coiffed and elegantly dressed. She
sits among the dragons of the Studiolo, dozens of the mostrenowned medieval and Renaissance scholars in the world.
They sit in rows of folding chairs, surrounded by DOZENS OF
TORTURE INSTRUMENTS, all in various states of restoration.
Hannibals voice creeps into Bedelias consciousness:
HANNIBAL (O.S.)
In accord with my own taste for the
pre-Renaissance...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 30.
The SLANT OF LIGHT over her head projects an IMAGE on a large
drop cloth suspended from the ceiling like a screen.
AN ILLUSTRATION OF SATAN
His three faces, half-immersed in ice, chewing on Brutus,
Cassius and Judas Iscariot, while weeping. Hannibal is a
dark figure pacing the aisles as he speaks:
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
...I present the case of Pietro
della Vigna, whose treachery earned
him a place in Dantes Hell.
ON HANNIBAL
He steps into the light, in front of the illustration of
Satan, its horns peeking out from behind his head.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
He was disgraced and blinded for
betraying his emperors trust.
He presses the switch in his palm and the illustration behind
him is now depicting Dante's nine levels of Hell.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dantes pilgrim finds him in the
seventh level of the Inferno,
reserved for suicides. Like Judas
Iscariot, he died by hanging.
Hannibal paces the aisle, slowly approaching Bedelia.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Judas and Pietro della Vigna are
linked in Dantes Inferno.
Hannibal places a gentle hand on Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal and hanging, then, linked
since antiquity, the image
appearing again and again in art.
An ART SLIDE appears on the drop cloth. Hannibal begins
pacing again, taking his hand off Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
This is the earliest-known
depiction of the Crucifixion,
carved on an ivory box in Gaul
about A.D. four hundred.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 31.
(MORE)
It includes the death by hanging of
Judas, his face upturned to the
branch that suspends him.
NEW ANGLE
A NEW SLIDE appears as CAMERA reveals Antony Dimmond quietly
listening to Hannibals lecture from the back of the room.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
On the doors of the Benevento
Cathedral, we see Judas hanging
with his bowels falling out.
Hannibal squeezes the remote and ANOTHER SLIDE appears.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
And here, from a fifteenth-century
edition of The Inferno, is Pietro
della Vignas body hanging from a
bleeding tree. I wont belabor the
parallels with Judas Iscariot.
ON BEDELIA
Her eyes wander until they find Mr. Dimmond listening
intently. Her face goes slack.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal, hanging, self-destruction.
Hannibal addresses Bedelia almost directly without singling
her out in the audience, all with a glance.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
"Io fei gibetto a me de le mie case."
(translating)
I make my own home be my gallows.
Bedelia averts her eyes just as Hannibal notices Dimmond.
His composure only falters for a brief moment.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Mr. Dimmond. Welcome. Please join
us. We were just about to discuss
the matter of chewing in Dante.
Dimmond smiles politely, then takes a seat. Hannibal glances
at Bedelia, but her chair is now vacant.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 32.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia hurries away from Hannibals presentation as APPLAUSE
erupts from the Studiolo.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT
The dry-yet-enthusiastic applause trickles to a stop as
Hannibal nods his thanks to the Studiolo as they stand and
filter out of the hall.
HANNIBAL
Thank you for your kind attention.
Sogliato is gathering his belongings as Hannibal approaches.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Would you say I secured my
position, Professor Sogliato?
SOGLIATO
The Studiolo seems satisfied.
Dimmond waltzes up, joining Hannibal and Sogliato.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Satisfied? That applause was
downright enthusiastic in its soft
and dusty way.
SOGLIATO
Dottor Fell is a friend of yours?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Ive only known him a short time.
Still, the tales I could tell.
SOGLIATO
Please do.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What kind of friend would I be?
SOGLIATO
What kind of friend, indeed.
(to Hannibal)
Dottore.
Without another word, Sogliato moves off, suppressing an eye
roll, joining the Studiolo as they exit. Dimmond eyes the
various torture instruments surrounding them:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 33.
ANTONY DIMMOND
An exposition of Atrocious Torture
Instruments appeals to connoisseurs
of the very worst in mankind.
HANNIBAL
Now that ceaseless exposure has
calloused us to the lewd and the
vulgar, it is instructive to see
what still seems wicked to us.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What still slaps the clammy flab of
our submissive consciousness hard
enough to get our attention?
HANNIBAL
What wickedness has your attention,
Mr. Dimmond?
Hannibal and Dimmond circle a BREAKING WHEEL as they assess
each others intentions.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Yours, Dr. Fell. I have no
delusions of morality; if I had, I
wouldve gone to la polizia. (then)
Im curious what fate befell Dr.
Fell to see you here in his stead.
Hannibal studies Mr. Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
You may have to strap me to the
breaking wheel to loosen my tongue.
ANTONY DIMMOND
No torture was required to loosen
your wife/not-your-wifes tongue.
(off Hannibal's look)
She overestimated my affection for
the genuine Dr. Fell. Clearly, you
found him as distasteful as I did.
HANNIBAL
On the contrary.
ANTONY DIMMOND
We can twist ourselves into all
manner of uncomfortable positions
just to maintain appearances, with
or without a breaking wheel.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 34.
HANNIBAL
Are you here to twist me into an
uncomfortable position?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Im here to help you untwist... to
our mutual benefit.
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia has donned a coat and is carrying a small suitcase,
hurrying toward the door. She reaches for the doorknob and
stops short. Its starting to turn...
The door opens and Hannibal ushers Antony Dimmond inside. He
averts his eyes away from Bedelias gaze.
POV FROM THE HALL
As Hannibal slowly shuts the door on anyones escape.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 35.
ACT FIVE
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER -- SLOW MOTION
VIOLENT SHADOWS dance across her face. We are in the fog of
Bedelias experience, her hearing numbed by the wash of her
circulatory system and a HIGH-PITCHED RINGING intermittently
broken by STACCATO BURSTS of a terrified heart.
CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BACK
The violent shadows continue their SLOW DANCE across Bedelia
and the wall behind her as Hannibal brutally and efficiently
dispatches Antony Dimmond to the afterlife. Her suitcase is
next to her, her coat draped over her chair. We are --
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - NIGHT
Bedelia is unflinching despite jagged breaths rattling at the
back of her throat. Hannibal stands over Dimmonds corpse.
HANNIBAL
Observe or participate.
The words dont immediately land with Bedelia, still stunned
at what she has witnessed. She slowly looks at Hannibal:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What?
HANNIBAL
Are you, in this very moment,
observing or participating?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Observing.
The corners of Hannibals lips curl ever so slightly.
HANNIBAL
If you can see me, I can see you.
Hannibal leans over Dimmonds broken corpse in a FRAME
reminiscent of him leaning over Bedelias dead patient.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
You say youre observing, but this,
this is participation, Bedelia.
(off her look)
Did you know what he would do when
you asked him to help you? Id
prefer you answer honestly.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 36.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
This always goes better if one of
us is honest.
HANNIBAL
Have you been honest with yourself?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was curious.
HANNIBAL
You were curious what would happen.
You were curious what Mr. Dimmond
would do. What I would do.
(then)
Did you anticipate our thoughts?
Counter-thoughts? Rationalizations?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes.
HANNIBAL
(re: Dimmonds body)
Is this what you expected?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(a moment, then)
Yes.
HANNIBAL
Thats participation.
Hannibal crosses to Bedelias suitcase, picking it up.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Whatve you gotten yourself into,
Bedelia?
(off her silence)
Shall I hang up your coat?
Bedelia absently hands him her coat. Hannibal moves into the
bedroom. Through the open door we can see him place
Bedelias suitcase on the bed and begin to unpack it.
OFF Bedelia staring at Mr. Dimmonds body...
CLOSE ON A BEAUTIFUL VINTAGE LEATHER STEAMER TRUNK
CAMERA reveals TWO PORTERS carry the trunk toward...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 37.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - PLATFORM - DAY
Hannibal ENTERS FRAME behind the two porters and the trunk en
route to the awaiting TRAIN CAR. Dressed in an elegant travel
coat, he strikes a dashing figure as he boards the train.
INT. TRAIN CAR - DAY
Hannibal shares a private compartment with his steamer trunk.
As CAMERA PUSHES IN, Hannibals gaze drifts to the window as
a stunning Italian landscape blurs past...
SNAILS
They topple into a hot pan, a brandy flamb erupts around
them. As the fire starts to fade, a shower of white wine
douses the flame and we EXTINGUISH TO BLACK.
CAMERA PULLS OUT OF A LARGE AFRICAN SNAIL SHELL
The tiny snails from the cochlear garden are tumbling out
onto the dinner table, beautifully cooked. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTERS HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK to reveal Hannibal and Gideon
at the table, flanking the large snail shell. Surrounding
the mouth of the shell are various oysters in the half-shell.
HANNIBAL
Would you rather I extended you the
same kindness as the escargot?
DR. GIDEON
Eating me without my knowledge? I
find knowing to be much more
powerful than not knowing. Why do
you think I'm allowing this?
Hannibal studies his dinner companion, appreciating his bite.
HANNIBAL
Why do you think I'm allowing this?
DR. GIDEON
Snails aren't the only creatures
who prefer to eat in company.
Gideon forks a snail in its shell, which is secured
decoratively so he can use one arm, and pops it in his mouth.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
I'm fascinated to know how you will
feel when all this... happens to you.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 38.
EXT. PALERMO - NORMAN PALACE - DAWN
Time-lapse establishing.
INT. NORMAN CHAPEL - DAWN
Ornate, inspiring and severe.
Morning light glances down from the stained-glass windows,
casting colored pools and dense shadows.
CAMERA prowls the aisles between the rows of pews and finds A
GARGANTUAN HUMAN HEART -- not the organ itself, but a
representation, skillfully molded from the CORPSE OF ANTONY
DIMMOND.
The torso is tucked into a fetal position, hands and feet
have been cut off mid-forearm/mid-shin. The arms and legs
broken and bent to mimic the ventricles and aorta. Dimmonds
head has been removed.
The dark red blood streaking the body and the pallor of the
dead skin create the purplish hues of a recently-removed organ.
The heart is pierced by three swords pushed through the
body at angles, to both secure the organic sculpture in place
and provide a tripod to lift it from the ground.
It almost appears to be a horrifying brazier awaiting flame.
As the sun rises, the multicolored shafts of light beaming
through the stained-glass windows spotlight Hannibals
creation in all its glory...
OFF the tableau, placed amid the gorgeous light, in a
monument to God and mans adulation of him, we...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 39.
Antipasto
Written by
Bryan Fuller
&
Steve Lightfoot
Directed by
Vincenzo Natali
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #301 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2015 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot 
HANNIBAL
"Antipasto"
TEASER
BLACK
A PANNING LIGHT reveals a HUMAN FACE frozen in torment. Then
a HAND grasping for freedom. Our light now reveals the
TORSO, lean and stretched in agony.
WIDER -- our light casts across a vertical group of HUMAN
BODIES, and as we move over it, the bodies ANIMATE, writhing
in torment.
REVERSE WIDE -- to blackness, and our light is now a
PINPOINT. Slowly enlarging as it comes toward us. And a LOW
DRONE accompanies it, indistinct, but unsettling.
The circle of light grows, and MORPHS into an EYE,
unblinking, as our drone increases, and then our eye again
MORPHS, becoming the SPINNING FRONT WHEEL of a motorcycle.
CLOSE ON A GLOVED HAND as it works the throttle, and the
drone PITCHES HIGHER as the bike changes gear.
ON OUR TORTURED HUMAN FORMS as they writhe against one another
-- and then, IMAGE IS SPLIT by the motorcycle's front wheel as
it splashes through the PUDDLE in which they were reflected.
CLOSE ON WATER DROPLETS as they are launched into the air,
like bubbles, a tortured soul reflecting, trapped, in each as
they spin through the air and turn BLOOD RED.
CLOSE ON THE REFLECTIVE BLACK VISOR of our bike's RIDER --
Figures writhe within the margins of the glass.
REVERSE -- WIDE -- behind the motorbike, now DWARFED IN FRAME
as it rides toward an IMMENSE PAIR OF GATES -- Rodin's Gates
of Hell, the sculpted bodies, caught in torment, adorning
each side.
REVERSE AGAIN -- and now we are back on our rider's visor --
the gates fill the visor, and as the rider gets closer, we
watch in the reflection as the gates BEGIN TO OPEN --
And through the opening space we see PARIS OPENING UP BEYOND.
The bike speeds through the gates, sending the tortured
figures into a new frenzy, and then he is through and the
reflection is now the frenzy of a PARIS NIGHT STREET...
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
The motorcycle -- a TRIUMPH BONNEVILLE -- swerves and cuts
between two cars like a knife through butter.
The Bonneville dances between lanes as the rider throws his
weight from side to side.
We enjoy his progress; his skill and prowess as he owns the
road.
CLOSE ON the reflective visor of his helmet, the world beyond
zooming by, reflected in the black glass.
His gloved hands on the throttle; his foot as it kicks the
powerful bike through the gears.
The Bonneville BRAKES to a sudden halt. The rider gets off.
Dressed in Belstaff. He removes the helmet. For a brief
second, those bodies writhe across it again -- there, and then
gone -- and we see the rider now: it is HANNIBAL LECTER.
As we haven't seen him before. Looser, longer hair; a little
rougher; a man free of responsibilities.
INT. PARIS PARTY VENUE - NIGHT
PALE YELLOW LIQUID fizzes into a glass flute. A hand takes the
champagne and moves from a bar, and we go with it, revealing --
A PARTY CROWD -- under a banner: "Bon Voyage, Roman Fell."
It is a well-heeled leaving party for DR. ROMAN FELL, a tall,
lean man of 50, sporting a fine academic's beard. He holds
court in the center of the room. He loves the attention of a
crowd of young acolytes and well-wishers.
We move through the throng, toward him. As people part in front
of us, we REVERSE to reveal this is Hannibal Lecter's POV.
His eyes fixed on Roman Fell.
STAY ON Hannibal as he moves lithely through the crowd,
bodies between him and us, he is there and then gone -- like
a tiger moving through the long grass. His eyes never
leaving his prey. Appraising, calculating...
A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN crosses his path, makes eye contact.
Hannibal returns it. Raises his glass.
She smiles, but Hannibal inclines his head and passes on the
invitation to linger. Steps around her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 2.
ANTONY DIMMOND, 40s, tall, lean, somewhat louche-looking --
his clothes expensive, but old and worn -- darts suddenly at
a WAITRESS with a tray of champagne, snaffles two glasses.
He tosses one back quickly, then notices Hannibal noticing.
ANTONY DIMMOND
(re: his two glasses)
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
(then)
Antony Dimmond. I'd offer a hand,
but--
HANNIBAL
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Do you know Roman well?
Dimmond clocks Hannibal's eyes wandering back toward Dr. Fell
amid a circle of people.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
You were staring with the thinlyveiled disdain of a man who does.
I was his TA at Cambridge. He was
insufferable even then.
Dimmond finishes the second flute of champagne and puts it on a
passing tray. Grabs two more and hands Hannibal one of them.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Have you read his books? They're
terrible. You know they're
terrible, but you're too polite to
say. Blink if you agree.
(off his blink)
See.
Dimmond pulls a weathered paperback from his coat pocket.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
That doesn't stop him squatting
over a keyboard and depositing a
fresh one every six to eight
months. It has taken me six to
eight months to write one line.
HANNIBAL
Why?
Dimmond stares at Hannibal a moment, as if the answer is
abundantly clear, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 3.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Poetry is hard. Was too hard for
Roman. Easier for him to slide into
academia and dissect the efforts of
others than stand by his own words.
HANNIBAL
One can appreciate another's words
without dissecting them. Though,
on occasion, dissection is the only
thing that will do.
OFF Hannibal's glance in Dr. Fell's direction...
CUT TO:
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
Dr. Roman Fell walks home, merrily drunk, excited by the
prospect of his new adventure.
Behind him, our Bonneville idles slowly across the street.
As Hannibal is putting on his helmet:
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir.
Dr. Fell is reflected in the black maw of Hannibal's visor as
Hannibal slowly follows him, then passes him by. CAMERA
follows Dr. Fell as Hannibal's Bonneville speeds away.
EXT./INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
Dr. Fell enters his building and heads up the stairs. He
stops short when he sees Hannibal standing outside his door.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir?
CUT TO:
INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
BLOOD RED WINE SPLASHES up the sides of a glass.
Hands place an OPERA RECORD on a turntable. CLOSE ON the
needle as it drops.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 4.
BUTTER melts in a pan.
LIVER is tossed in with a sizzle... a dash of brandy is added
and flares into flame.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's knife and fork as it slices through the
liver on his plate.
A blush of blood STAINS the juices on the plate. He brings
it to his lips. Chews.
Delicious.
CUT TO:
PUSH IN OMINOUSLY
On the inside of the closed apartment door.
CLOSER and CLOSER till the handle turns and it opens toward
us -- and a stylishly-dressed woman enters.
MRS. FELL!
She hears the opera and smiles.
Moves toward the dining room.
She halts in the doorway.
CAMERA moves around her to register the cause of her confusion.
MRS. FELL'S POV
Hannibal Lecter sits at the table, linen and cutlery
immaculately placed. Savoring his food, a nice Bordeaux and
the music.
Hannibal smiles up at her.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 5.
ACT ONE
DARKNESS
A REFLECTIVE SHAPE moves toward CAMERA. It is --
A LARGE SILVER DOME.
It covers a sizeable serving platter that is moving through a
darkened room until, finally, the REFLECTION OF ABEL GIDEON
bows across its surface. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
ABEL GIDEON sits at the beautifully-appointed table; he has a
drip in one arm and a chest monitor. Under the table, we see
that Gideon is now missing both legs at the thigh. (NOTE:
This takes place between Eps. #206 and 207.)
The silver dome turns and Gideon watches his reflection SLIDE
DOWN the length of the platter. The platter is lifted from
the sidecar and placed in the middle of the dinner table.
The large silver dome rises off the platter as if by unseen
hands floating somewhere in the darkness. Underneath the
dome and further unveiled by a SILKY CLOUD OF SMOKE:
GIDEON'S LEG
From hip to ankle, beautifully roasted with SUGAR CANE QUILLS
sticking out of the flesh in a pleasing grid pattern. It's
mounted on a plank, like a long whole ham.
DR. GIDEON
You really are the Devil.
Certainly seem to enjoy it. You
have a click in your hoof.
FROM GIDEON'S POV -- HANNIBAL
He appears to MATERIALIZE out of the THINNING MIST rising off
the bed of smoking sprigs of thyme.
HANNIBAL
The Devil has been a yoke on the
neck of humanity since we first
began to think and dream.
(then)
I for a much shorter time.
Gideon takes a deep, appreciative breath.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 6.
DR. GIDEON
You admit the yoke.
(then)
Smells like candy apples. And
thyme. You smoked me in thyme.
HANNIBAL
Smoked. Glazed. Slow-cooked.
Served on a sugar cane quill. You
will be falling off the bone.
Hannibal plucks a sugar cane quill, pulling out a MEDALLION
OF MEAT from Gideon's severed leg, like a Popsicle stick, and
placing it on his guest's plate.
DR. GIDEON
Well, of course.
(then)
And with these rarified dishes you
so thoughtfully prepare...
(then)
...do we all taste different?
HANNIBAL
Everyone has their flavor.
Gideon's eyes narrow, not giving Hannibal the satisfaction of
seeing him impressed one way or another.
DR. GIDEON
Cannibalism was standard behavior
among our ancestors. Missing link
is only missing because we ate him.
HANNIBAL
This isn't cannibalism, Abel. It's
only cannibalism if we're equals.
DR. GIDEON
It's only cannibalism if you eat
me. But you feel this is just the
natural order of things? Everybody
gets et?
HANNIBAL
Be he fat or be he lean.
DR. GIDEON
My last leg standing across the
table from me, and I still wrestle
with the urges to fight or flee.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 7.
HANNIBAL
It's called "terminal restlessness."
The body fills with adrenaline and
feels compelled to go-go-go.
DR. GIDEON
"Go-go-go"? I've already got up
and gone. This is posthumous.
HANNIBAL
You're not dead yet, Abel. You
still have to eat.
DR. GIDEON
No, I don't.
Gideon takes a bite of the medallion of meat before him.
It's truly something special, but once again, he doesn't give
Hannibal the satisfaction. Hannibal smiles, regardless.
Gideon is about to take another bite, but pauses to glance
around the beautifully-appointed room and at his devilish host.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
At this point, there is absolutely
nothing I have to do. But I don't
want to spoil the fairy tale, do I?
You and your gingerbread house.
HANNIBAL
Let it be a fairy tale, then.
(then)
Once upon a time...
OFF Hannibal...
GRAND MUSIC begins to rise, taking us to --
INT. FLORENCE BALLROOM - NIGHT
A dazzlingly-dressed couple as they sweep ACROSS FRAME in a
stylish waltz.
It could be a scene from Cinderella's dreams... The glitter
of jewelry and champagne. The dash of black tie and
ballgowns; the dance floor filled with couples sweeping in
graceful patterns across it.
CAMERA moves through the dancing figures to find a
particularly-elegant couple and stays with them as they swoop
across the floor... They waltz around CAMERA, faces hidden
from us as they move in perfect union, until the music comes
to an end and the man dips his partner low to the ground --
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 8.
Revealing Hannibal and a stunning BEDELIA DU MAURIER... a
prince and his princess. He smiles down at her, both
somewhat breathless.
A beat, and then he pulls her back to him.
HANNIBAL
Bellissima.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
Hannibal snags them both champagne off a passing tray.
SOGLIATO (O.S.)
Dr. Fell, I hope you translate as
well as you waltz.
SOGLIATO is a smooth, oily Italian, late 30s. Impeccably
dressed. An academic who wears his ego like armor. Sogliato
kisses Bedelia's hand and then shakes Hannibal's. He stands
with SIGNOR and SIGNORA ALBIZZI -- president of the museum's
governing board.
SIGNOR ALBIZZI
Our new appointee was confirmed by
the board after close questioning.
SOGLIATO
You've examined him in medieval
Italian, and I will not deny his
language is admirable.
Bedelia watches this exchange. Intrigued. Aware others in
the crowd are observing. As is Sogliato...
HANNIBAL
Thank you.
SOGLIATO
For a straniero.
Sogliato smiles at the audience now ear-wigging shamelessly.
Bedelia is watching Hannibal, the way his eyes go dead for a
second at the insult before he smiles.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Are you familiar with the
personalities of pre-Renaissance
Florence? I think not. (a smile for Bedelia)
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 9.
(MORE)
Dr. Fell might hold in his hand --
in his non-Italian hand -- a note
from Dante Alighieri himself. Would
he recognize it? I think not.
Bedelia intercedes:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato, would you do me
the honor of a dance?
Bedelia offers her arm. Keen to lead him away. Hannibal
noting her intention. As they turn away:
HANNIBAL "Allegro mi sembrava Amor tenendo /
meo core in mano, e ne le braccia
avea / madonna involta in un drappo
dormendo. / Poi la svegliava, e
d'esto core ardendo / lei paventosa
umilmente pascea; / appreso gir lo
ne vedea piangendo."
Some of those listening applaud loudly at this stirring
recital. Sogliato hates it. Bedelia smiles at Hannibal.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dante's first sonnet. It
fascinated Cavalcanti. The eating
of the heart is a powerful image.
Hannibal doesn't have to be smug; Signor Albizzi is smug for
him. Off that smugness:
SOGLIATO
If he's such an expert on Dante,
let him lecture on Dante, to the
Studiolo. Let him face them.
(then)
Extempore.
The reaction of the crowd says this is a strong challenge.
Hannibal merely inclines his head.
HANNIBAL
I'm happy to sing for my supper.
He holds Sogliato's gaze. Battle met.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato.
Bedelia looks to Sogliato who takes her hand to dance.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 10.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Hannibal smiles at Bedelia who doesn't return his smile.
EXT. FLORENCE - NIGHT
CAMERA moves across the city as the evening gathers and the
streets empty, the fan pattern of the cobbles shining in a
drizzle. CAMERA finds A SILHOUETTED MAN on a balcony.
CLOSE ON HANNIBAL
As we watch, his face becomes washed with amber, as if under
liquid, flowing and indistinct.
We are now --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
STAY ON this Hannibal in amber, framed within the proscenium
arch of his balcony, looking out over Florence...
HANNIBAL
We are among the palaces built six
hundred years ago by the merchant
princes, the kingmakers and
connivers of Renaissance Florence.
...until Bedelia reaches for the glass of brandy he is
offering her and breaks the illusion.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
As connivers of modern Florence.
Hannibal looks out over the city, considering its romance.
HANNIBAL
I've found a peace here that I
would preserve. I've killed hardly
anybody during our residence.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You created the vacancy at the
Palazzo Capponi by removing the
former curator.
HANNIBAL
A simple process requiring a few
seconds' work on the old man and a
modest outlay for two bags of cement.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You no longer have ethical
problems, Hannibal. You have
aesthetical ones.
(re: her zipper)
Could you?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 11.
She turns and Hannibal stands behind her and slowly unzips
her dress, revealing her bare back.
HANNIBAL
Ethics become aesthetics.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You seem more concerned with making
appearances than maintaining them.
HANNIBAL
If this is about my position at the
Palazzo, once the path was cleared,
I won the job fairly. On my merits.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes, even the most-contentious
Florentines can't resist the verse
of Dante ringing off frescoed walls.
HANNIBAL
One contentious Florentine can.
Bedelia crosses into:
INT. HANNIBAL'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY/BEDELIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
A large, freestanding CAST-IRON BATH in there. Bedelia
enters and turns the ornate taps. Water thunders out. She
turns to see Hannibal in the doorway.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Have you given serious thought to
eating Professor Sogliato?
HANNIBAL
My killing Sogliato now would not
preserve the peace.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Your peace is without morality.
HANNIBAL
Morality doesn't exist. Only morale.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How you feel today.
HANNIBAL
How do you feel today?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I still believe I'm in conscious
control of my actions. Given your
history, that's a good day.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 12.
OFF Bedelia's soft, polite smile...
CLOSE ON A RUSHING TAP
It is turned off and the steaming torrent becomes a DRIP. The
drip sends RINGS spreading to the deep sides of the bathtub.
Bedelia lies back and IMMERSES herself under the water. The
surface six inches from her mouth. Like Ophelia lying under
the surface of the lake... HOLDING HER BREATH -- A SINGLE
BUBBLE escapes her lips and slowly pops on the surface. She
stares upward. Slowly, her eyes close.
Around her, the water DARKENS TO BLACK, as if the bottom of
the bath has fallen away to reveal an ENDLESS DEPTH. And now
Bedelia is SLOWLY SINKING, horizontally sliding downward into
the Stygian dark...
BEDELIA'S POV -- amid the darkness, GNARLED ROOTS clamber
around one another, slick and wet amid the water...
LOWER and LOWER she sinks, beyond this level, into the next.
Until finally she comes to the BOTTOM and her body comes to
rest in a black silt that RISES AROUND HER in SWIRLS and
WISPS, as if welcoming her into its grasp.
ON BEDELIA'S CLOSED EYES
Another SOLITARY BUBBLE rises from her lips, and we RISE AWAY
from her to follow its progress.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
An area of ARTISAN FOOD STORES -- the streets thronged with
shoppers. CAMERA finds Bedelia among them, moving through
the crowd, a distant focus in her eyes.
CLOSE ON BEDELIA
A POLICE CONSTABLE comes down the street toward her. He
smiles, tips his hat to the beautiful lady. She nods, her
smile fading the moment he passes.
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
An elegant Florentine fine grocer filled with fine wines and
exotic cheeses. Bedelia approaches the CLERK at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
CUT TO:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 13.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
Bedelia sits on a bench, her shopping bag from Vera dal 1926
next to her. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal...
...she sits on the platform of a train station.
A CCTV camera sits above her, covering the length of the
platform. Bedelia looks up at it and then back to the TRAIN
which is about to depart. Its open carriage doors are an
invitation... Will she take it?
OFF Bedelia...
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 14.
ACT TWO
EXT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PUSHES IN as headlights roll up the driveway and
across the siding of the house as a car approaches.
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - FOYER/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA moves through the darkened hall until FRAMING AN
EXTREME CLOSE-UP ON THE FRONT DOORKNOB.
The SOUND OF A KEY in the door --
Breaks the quiet. LIGHT SPILLS in as the door opens.
Bedelia enters.
She turns to the living room as CAMERA reveals almost every
piece of her furniture is beneath a drop cloth, protected
against dust for an indefinite period of time -- just as she
left it before she fled Hannibal and the FBI.
(NOTE: Bedelia has just come from the FBIs interrogation
room, as seen in Ep. #212, Tome-wan.)
Bedelia takes in the shroud of the chairs, walking the rooms
periphery, searching for some sense of herself. She pauses.
AN EMPTY CHAIR
Where she left a glass-cut perfume bottle for Hannibal weeks
earlier. Its gone. She considers its absence, then:
CLOSE ON THE SPIKE OF A CORKSCREW
It TWISTS through the cork in a bottle of wine. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia opens the bottle of wine and pours herself a glass.
She reacts, twists the bottle upward to stem the flow. One
last drop of wine falls into the glass and she listens.
CAMERA FOLLOWS BEDELIA
She moves into the hall as a distinct sound grows louder and
louder until she recognizes it. The shower is running.
INT. BEDELIA'S HOUSE - BEDROOM/BATHROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
She moves into her bedroom, toward the open door of her
bathroom through which she can see bloody clothes strewn
across the floor and a MAN IN HER SHOWER.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 15.
HANNIBAL
He stands naked in Bedelias shower, blood thinly streaming
from his various cuts and wounds as water washes them clean.
He twists the pressure valve closed until the water only drips.
Hannibal steps out of the shower, allowing the water to bead
off of him, before grabbing a towel to dry himself.
There is a familiar CLICK of a gun cocking and Hannibal
realizes he is no longer alone.
HANNIBALS POV -- THE SHADOWS
He slowly pushes the bathroom door open, casting light into
the bedroom and finally illuminating Bedelia sitting calmly,
holding a gun in one hand and a glass of wine in the other.
BEDELIAS POV -- HANNIBAL
He stands naked, silhouetted in the doorway.
HANNIBAL
May I get dressed?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You may.
Hannibal lets his towel drop and pulls on his underwear.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER (CONTD)
What have you done, Hannibal?
HANNIBAL
Ive taken off my person suit.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You let them see you.
HANNIBAL
I let them see enough.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How does that feel? Being seen?
Hannibal shrugs on his shirt and buttons it.
HANNIBAL
Youre not in a position to ask,
Dr. Du Maurier. You ended our
patient-psychiatrist relationship.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 16.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I lacked the appropriate skills to
continue your treatment.
HANNIBAL
I never found you to be lacking.
She studies him a moment, then:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im sorry I didnt leave you with a
suitable substitute for therapy.
(then)
Is Will Graham still alive?
Hannibal goes still. A quiet moment as he curbs his emotions.
HANNIBAL
Will Graham was not a suitable
substitute for therapy.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What was he?
HANNIBAL
Is this professional curiosity?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Almost entirely.
HANNIBAL
Do you trust me?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not entirely.
(then)
Trust is driven by an emotional
sense of what to do, and a very
conscious sense what not to do.
HANNIBAL
Are you taking into account my
beliefs about your intentions?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My intentions?
HANNIBAL
Human motivation can be little more
than lucid greed.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Greed and blind optimism.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 17.
HANNIBAL
Youre optimistic I wont kill you.
OFF Bedelia as she smoothly un-cocks the gun in her hand,
sets it aside and takes a sip of wine.
PRE-LAP A SUDDEN SQUEALING --
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
The hurly-burly of the Paris train about to depart. Lastminute PASSENGERS jumping aboard.
CONDUCTORS make their last calls.
Train doors SLAM.
The SIGNAL LIGHTS change.
The Paris train pulls out of the station slowly, revealing
Bedelia still sitting on her bench, watching it go...
CCTV -- looking down on Bedelia as she looks up at the
camera... looking anything but optimistic.
MUSIC RISES over her, taking us to --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - DAY
A darkened room. The music plays as Hannibal works on his
speech to the Studiolo, rapt and transported.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's face and hands, light flickering over
them as he works with slides and a projector.
Hannibal studies paintings and poems, writing notes, struck
by their power. Absorbed in a world of beauty and intellect.
Happy.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - CORRIDOR - DAY
ON HANNIBAL
Smiling, happy with life, as he walks down a vaulted
corridor, light and shadow alternating on his face as he
passes the windows...
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY/FOYER - DAY
He comes down a wide flight of stone stairs and into the foyer.
Bright sunlight shines in from the outside.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 18.
Hannibal walks toward it, the LENS FLARING as he becomes a
silhouette, his face going to darkness as the bright sunlight
of the doorframe envelopes him.
MATCH CUT TO:
EXT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - DAY
As Hannibal emerges onto the steps and looks across the busy
square.
ANTONY DIMMOND (O.S.)
Hello! Bonjour!
Hannibal does not realize this is directed at him, but as he
heads down the stairs, a hand grabs his arm.
ON HANNIBAL -- for a second his eyes threaten violence -- but
then he turns to see:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sporting stubble and wild hair. He seems absentminded, but
his eyes are sharp.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
We met in Paris a few months back.
Sorry, didn't mean to startle you,
but here I was and then, there you
were... I never forget a face...
HANNIBAL
Antony Dimmond.
Dimmond beams with pleasure.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Nice to be remembered.
HANNIBAL
You're hard to forget.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What are you doing in Florence?
Are you working with Roman?
HANNIBAL
Dr. Fell?
ANTONY DIMMOND
I heard he took an appointment at
the Capponi library.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 19.
ON HANNIBAL -- Dimmond is astute beneath his manner. Doesn't
miss much, it seems.
HANNIBAL
Yes, he's the new curator and
translator of the Palazzo Capponi.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Evidently, the last one eloped with
a woman or someone's money or both.
Hannibal is cool.
HANNIBAL
That's the commonly-held belief.
(then)
You just missed Roman.
Dimmond looks crestfallen.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Did I? Was hoping to take the piss.
Hannibal studies Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
Spare the piss for the time being.
If you're free, my wife and I would
love to have you for dinner.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 20.
ACT THREE
CLOSE ON A SNAIL
It moves at a snail's pace across a slick, fleshy surface.
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal it is one snail among dozens.
We are --
INT. COCHLEAR GARDEN - DARK (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK until it reveals a plump snail
feasting on the tip of a human finger.
The snails are crawling across the flesh of an arm resting in
a pool of wine marinade, also consumed by dozens of snails.
Fingers of the living reach INTO FRAME and pluck the plump
snail from the fingers of the marinating severed arm.
CLOSE ON A PLUMP SNAIL
CAMERA RACK FOCUSES onto Hannibal studying the snail as it
crawls across his fingers. He's dressed in a three-piece
plaid suit and an apron, harvesting his cochlear garden.
HANNIBAL
Listen.
He holds his breath for a moment and we hear dozens of little
RASP-LIKE TONGUES CHEWING on Gideon's severed arm.
Reveal Gideon.
He is listening, but not as impressed as Hannibal -- as it is
his flesh the snails are chewing. He sits on a motorized
wheelchair. His left arm is missing below the shoulder. The
fresh amputation wound is tightly dressed.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
They prefer eating in company.
Hannibal plucks snails from their moist roosts, collecting
them in an elegant glass cylinder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
I've kept cochlear gardens since I
was a young man, fattening snails on
herbs and vine leaves. Like all of
us, what they eat greatly influences
and enhances their flavor.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 21.
DR. GIDEON
When I'm not eating myself, you
wish me to be eating oysters.
Drinking sweet wines, snacking on
acorns. All to make me tastier?
HANNIBAL
Oh yes.
(re: the snails)
And you are making them tastier.
DR. GIDEON
And I you. Imagine what you must
taste like. Won't be long before
someone takes a bite out of you.
Hannibal notes Gideon's tone.
HANNIBAL
When agitated, sea snails produce a
purple dye. Its color won't fade.
Becomes brighter with weathering.
(then)
You're becoming brighter, Abel.
Dying hasn't dulled you one bit.
Gideon politely turns his attention back to the snails:
DR. GIDEON
The snails are certainly having a
lovely experience, fattened on me
in a red-wine marinade. They have
no idea they're going to be eaten.
(then)
We do.
CLOSE ON AN OYSTER SHELL
CAMERA crawls across its surface. A SHUCKING BLADE ENTERS
FRAME and splits the shell, at its hinge, with a twist,
removing the lid and revealing the oyster.
The oyster in its cup is placed on a bed of ice, SPINNING to
reveal it is joining a dozen oysters fanned across a platter.
A woman's hand ENTERS FRAME and takes an oyster.
CAMERA follows the oyster to reveal Bedelia. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Bedelia sits with Hannibal and Antony Dimmond at the table.
She is hiding her fears well, surrounded by a tray of oysters
and nuts. Hannibal at ease, a platter of meats between him and
Dimmond, who enjoys the hospitality, pours himself more wine.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 22.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(to Dimmond)
How well do you know the Fells?
She shoots the oyster in her imperceptibly-trembling hand.
ANTONY DIMMOND
As well as anybody. Which'd be not
really. Lydia a friend of yours?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not really.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I'd be surprised to hear she had
one. We share a mutual detestation.
She disapproves of my disapproval.
HANNIBAL
What do you disapprove of?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Roman, mainly. Lydia isn't quite
bright enough to see I'm just
intimidated. Roman does, of course.
How he loves to strike fear.
HANNIBAL
Dante wrote that fear is almost as
bitter as death.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Dante wasn't dead when he wrote it.
HANNIBAL
Are you traveling alone, Antony?
The question sends a shudder down Bedelia's spine.
ANTONY DIMMOND
It's the only way I travel.
HANNIBAL
Roman is speaking to the Studiolo
Friday. On Dante. You should come.
If Bedelia had been chewing, she would have choked.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sounds appropriately hellish.
Dimmond clocks Bedelia as she reaches for another oyster.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 23.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Are you avoiding meats?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I'm trying not to eat anything with
a central nervous system.
Dimmond calls out the food in her corner of the table:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Oysters, acorns and Marsala. That's
what ancient Romans would feed
animals to improve their flavor.
Bedelia does her best to hide her realization, steadies
herself. Hannibal watches her very closely as she digests.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My husband has quite a
sophisticated palette. He's
particular about how I taste.
Bedelia shoots another oyster back. Hannibal stares. An
uncomfortably-long beat as Dimmond considers that. Finally:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Is it that kind of party?
HANNIBAL
It is not that kind of party.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No, it really isn't.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Shame. You were both suddenly so
fascinating.
HARD CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Dimmond stands in the open doorway, shrugging on his coat as
Hannibal and Bedelia see him out.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Buonasera.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Buonasera.
HANNIBAL
Buonasera.
Hannibal closes the door as Dimmond walks away.
A moment, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 24.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(curious)
You let him go.
HANNIBAL
What would you have me do, Bedelia?
As Bedelia ponders Hannibal's question...
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
Bedelia walks down the street.
CAMERA follows her from across the street, keeping pace.
ANGLE ON ANTONY DIMMOND
Also walking the streets. Moving through the crowds,
following Bedelia.
INTERCUT their progress.
Bedelia moves with purpose. Resolved. Anxious.
Dimmond moves with greater freedom, not a care in the world.
Is he stalking her?
Bedelia crosses the street, narrowly avoiding a car that
screeches to a halt before it would have run her down.
Dimmond turns to the sound to see Bedelia disappearing into:
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
Navigating her way through the pastas and hams, Bedelia
approaches the clerk at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
As the clerk prepares the order, Antony strides across the
grocery store, directly toward Bedelia.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Florentines say Vera dal, with its
wealth of cheeses and truffles,
smells like the feet of God.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Hello, Mr. Dimmond.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 25.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I don't know if it's you, me or God,
but there's something in the air.
The clerk hands Bedelia her bag.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Dinner was lovely. I must confess
to a certain abstract curiosity
about your husband... Mrs. Fell.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(stares, then)
Good-bye, Mr. Dimmond.
Bedelia takes the bag and exits. Dimmond follows.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
CAMERA leads Bedelia out of Vera dal 1926 as Dimmond stands
in the doorway behind her, watching her go a moment, then:
ANTONY DIMMOND
I asked one of the scholars at the
Palazzo to point me in the
direction of Dr. Fell. He raised
one craggy old finger and pointed
it directly at your husband. I
thought the old codger made a
mistake, but there was no mistake.
Bedelia keeps walking. Dimmond quickens his pace to catch up.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Even in the teeth of evidence,
you're just going to walk away.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Those aren't the teeth you should
be concerned about.
Bedelia tries to control the tremble building inside her.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Where are Roman and Lydia?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I don't know.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Does your husband know?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 26.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He's not my husband. He is
something entirely Other.
ANTONY DIMMOND
The man is curating an exposition
of Atrocious Torture Instruments.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
The essence of the worst of the
human spirit is not found in the
iron maiden or the whetted edge.
Elemental ugliness, Mr. Dimmond, is
found in the faces of the crowd.
(then)
However you think you're going to
manipulate this situation to your
advantage, think again.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Bluebeard's wife. Secrets you're
not to know, yet sworn to keep.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
If I'm to be Bluebeard's wife, I
would prefer to be the last one.
(then)
Unless you believe you are beyond
harm, go to the police.
ANTONY DIMMOND
You want to be caught.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 27.
ACT FOUR
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PULLS BACK to find her lying flat on her back, covered
in blood. Shes breathing heavy, trembling.
There is a faint gurgling, choking sound that slowly begins to
register on her conscious mind through the sharp HUM of her
ringing ears and THUMPING of her circulatory system. She turns
and CAMERA reveals, lying on the floor next to her, is...
A DYING MAN
Hes dazed, choking on the blood overflowing from his mouth,
eyes rolling back until only the whites are visible.
He stiffens. After a long, horrible moment, he dies.
Bedelia stares, her jagged breath rattles in her ears, heart
racing. She sits up, unable to take her eyes off the dead
man lying next to her.
She raises a hand to brush the matted hair from her face, and
stops. Her hand looks like it has been dunked in a bucket of
blood up to her mid-forearm.
QUICK CUT TO:
MERE MOMENTS EARLIER
Bedelia straddles her PATIENT, holding him by the collar of
his shirt with one hand, the other hand is jammed down his
throat up to the mid-forearm. His eyes bulge.
BACK TO:
BEDELIA
She rises INTO FRAME, standing over her dead patient, and
CAMERA reveals Hannibal standing in the hallway behind her.
HANNIBAL
Bedelia.
Bedelia barely startles, turning to see Hannibal behind her.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He attacked me.
HANNIBAL
Is that your blood?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 28.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No.
Hannibal crouches next to the dead patient and examines his
hands -- theyre clean, free of blood or tissue.
HANNIBAL
You were... defending yourself?
A slow, guilty nod.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was reckless. Reckless violence
is a poor survival mechanism.
HANNIBAL
This wasnt reckless violence. It
was a controlled use of force.
Bedelia is haunted by the truth, tries to reassure herself:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not confused. My imagination
isnt filling in the gaps. I know
what happened here.
HANNIBAL
Do you?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He was your patient before he was
mine, Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
He died under your care.
(then)
Aggression can be an effective
means of maintaining order when
dealing with an unruly patient.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not an aggressive person.
HANNIBAL
Im sure you reacted with a level
of aggression that was uniquely
appropriate for this encounter.
(then)
But you werent defending yourself.
Hannibal stares, seeing right through her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 29.
A SERIES OF CLOSE SHOTS ON -- BEDELIA:
She unbuttons her bloody blouse, slipping it off her
shoulders and peeling it down her abdomen, exposing her
bloodstained undergarments. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - BATHROOM/BEDROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia is silhouetted in the doorway, much like Hannibal
was. CAMERA reveals Hannibal watching her from the shadows
of the bedroom, much like Bedelia was watching Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
I can help you tell the version of
events you want to be told. I can
help you, if you ask me to.
She opens the shower door and turns the nozzle. The
showerhead sprinkles and surges to life.
Bedelia raises her bloodstained hand to the shower stream,
allowing the red to wash away in rivulets down her arm.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
As Hannibals helpful grin starts to dawn...
ON BEDELIA
She stands under the shower, the water washes over her.
STREAMS OF WATER from the showerhead slow until they become
BEADS SUSPENDED IN MIDAIR above Bedelias upturned face.
MATCH CUT TO:
SCATTERED MOTES OF DUST
They float through the SLANT OF LIGHT cutting through the
darkness over Bedelias upturned face. We are now --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT (PRESENT)
Bedelia is beautifully coiffed and elegantly dressed. She
sits among the dragons of the Studiolo, dozens of the mostrenowned medieval and Renaissance scholars in the world.
They sit in rows of folding chairs, surrounded by DOZENS OF
TORTURE INSTRUMENTS, all in various states of restoration.
Hannibals voice creeps into Bedelias consciousness:
HANNIBAL (O.S.)
In accord with my own taste for the
pre-Renaissance...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 30.
The SLANT OF LIGHT over her head projects an IMAGE on a large
drop cloth suspended from the ceiling like a screen.
AN ILLUSTRATION OF SATAN
His three faces, half-immersed in ice, chewing on Brutus,
Cassius and Judas Iscariot, while weeping. Hannibal is a
dark figure pacing the aisles as he speaks:
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
...I present the case of Pietro
della Vigna, whose treachery earned
him a place in Dantes Hell.
ON HANNIBAL
He steps into the light, in front of the illustration of
Satan, its horns peeking out from behind his head.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
He was disgraced and blinded for
betraying his emperors trust.
He presses the switch in his palm and the illustration behind
him is now depicting Dante's nine levels of Hell.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dantes pilgrim finds him in the
seventh level of the Inferno,
reserved for suicides. Like Judas
Iscariot, he died by hanging.
Hannibal paces the aisle, slowly approaching Bedelia.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Judas and Pietro della Vigna are
linked in Dantes Inferno.
Hannibal places a gentle hand on Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal and hanging, then, linked
since antiquity, the image
appearing again and again in art.
An ART SLIDE appears on the drop cloth. Hannibal begins
pacing again, taking his hand off Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
This is the earliest-known
depiction of the Crucifixion,
carved on an ivory box in Gaul
about A.D. four hundred.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 31.
(MORE)
It includes the death by hanging of
Judas, his face upturned to the
branch that suspends him.
NEW ANGLE
A NEW SLIDE appears as CAMERA reveals Antony Dimmond quietly
listening to Hannibals lecture from the back of the room.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
On the doors of the Benevento
Cathedral, we see Judas hanging
with his bowels falling out.
Hannibal squeezes the remote and ANOTHER SLIDE appears.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
And here, from a fifteenth-century
edition of The Inferno, is Pietro
della Vignas body hanging from a
bleeding tree. I wont belabor the
parallels with Judas Iscariot.
ON BEDELIA
Her eyes wander until they find Mr. Dimmond listening
intently. Her face goes slack.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal, hanging, self-destruction.
Hannibal addresses Bedelia almost directly without singling
her out in the audience, all with a glance.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
"Io fei gibetto a me de le mie case."
(translating)
I make my own home be my gallows.
Bedelia averts her eyes just as Hannibal notices Dimmond.
His composure only falters for a brief moment.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Mr. Dimmond. Welcome. Please join
us. We were just about to discuss
the matter of chewing in Dante.
Dimmond smiles politely, then takes a seat. Hannibal glances
at Bedelia, but her chair is now vacant.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 32.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia hurries away from Hannibals presentation as APPLAUSE
erupts from the Studiolo.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT
The dry-yet-enthusiastic applause trickles to a stop as
Hannibal nods his thanks to the Studiolo as they stand and
filter out of the hall.
HANNIBAL
Thank you for your kind attention.
Sogliato is gathering his belongings as Hannibal approaches.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Would you say I secured my
position, Professor Sogliato?
SOGLIATO
The Studiolo seems satisfied.
Dimmond waltzes up, joining Hannibal and Sogliato.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Satisfied? That applause was
downright enthusiastic in its soft
and dusty way.
SOGLIATO
Dottor Fell is a friend of yours?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Ive only known him a short time.
Still, the tales I could tell.
SOGLIATO
Please do.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What kind of friend would I be?
SOGLIATO
What kind of friend, indeed.
(to Hannibal)
Dottore.
Without another word, Sogliato moves off, suppressing an eye
roll, joining the Studiolo as they exit. Dimmond eyes the
various torture instruments surrounding them:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 33.
ANTONY DIMMOND
An exposition of Atrocious Torture
Instruments appeals to connoisseurs
of the very worst in mankind.
HANNIBAL
Now that ceaseless exposure has
calloused us to the lewd and the
vulgar, it is instructive to see
what still seems wicked to us.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What still slaps the clammy flab of
our submissive consciousness hard
enough to get our attention?
HANNIBAL
What wickedness has your attention,
Mr. Dimmond?
Hannibal and Dimmond circle a BREAKING WHEEL as they assess
each others intentions.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Yours, Dr. Fell. I have no
delusions of morality; if I had, I
wouldve gone to la polizia. (then)
Im curious what fate befell Dr.
Fell to see you here in his stead.
Hannibal studies Mr. Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
You may have to strap me to the
breaking wheel to loosen my tongue.
ANTONY DIMMOND
No torture was required to loosen
your wife/not-your-wifes tongue.
(off Hannibal's look)
She overestimated my affection for
the genuine Dr. Fell. Clearly, you
found him as distasteful as I did.
HANNIBAL
On the contrary.
ANTONY DIMMOND
We can twist ourselves into all
manner of uncomfortable positions
just to maintain appearances, with
or without a breaking wheel.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 34.
HANNIBAL
Are you here to twist me into an
uncomfortable position?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Im here to help you untwist... to
our mutual benefit.
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia has donned a coat and is carrying a small suitcase,
hurrying toward the door. She reaches for the doorknob and
stops short. Its starting to turn...
The door opens and Hannibal ushers Antony Dimmond inside. He
averts his eyes away from Bedelias gaze.
POV FROM THE HALL
As Hannibal slowly shuts the door on anyones escape.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 35.
ACT FIVE
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER -- SLOW MOTION
VIOLENT SHADOWS dance across her face. We are in the fog of
Bedelias experience, her hearing numbed by the wash of her
circulatory system and a HIGH-PITCHED RINGING intermittently
broken by STACCATO BURSTS of a terrified heart.
CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BACK
The violent shadows continue their SLOW DANCE across Bedelia
and the wall behind her as Hannibal brutally and efficiently
dispatches Antony Dimmond to the afterlife. Her suitcase is
next to her, her coat draped over her chair. We are --
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - NIGHT
Bedelia is unflinching despite jagged breaths rattling at the
back of her throat. Hannibal stands over Dimmonds corpse.
HANNIBAL
Observe or participate.
The words dont immediately land with Bedelia, still stunned
at what she has witnessed. She slowly looks at Hannibal:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What?
HANNIBAL
Are you, in this very moment,
observing or participating?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Observing.
The corners of Hannibals lips curl ever so slightly.
HANNIBAL
If you can see me, I can see you.
Hannibal leans over Dimmonds broken corpse in a FRAME
reminiscent of him leaning over Bedelias dead patient.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
You say youre observing, but this,
this is participation, Bedelia.
(off her look)
Did you know what he would do when
you asked him to help you? Id
prefer you answer honestly.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 36.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
This always goes better if one of
us is honest.
HANNIBAL
Have you been honest with yourself?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was curious.
HANNIBAL
You were curious what would happen.
You were curious what Mr. Dimmond
would do. What I would do.
(then)
Did you anticipate our thoughts?
Counter-thoughts? Rationalizations?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes.
HANNIBAL
(re: Dimmonds body)
Is this what you expected?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(a moment, then)
Yes.
HANNIBAL
Thats participation.
Hannibal crosses to Bedelias suitcase, picking it up.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Whatve you gotten yourself into,
Bedelia?
(off her silence)
Shall I hang up your coat?
Bedelia absently hands him her coat. Hannibal moves into the
bedroom. Through the open door we can see him place
Bedelias suitcase on the bed and begin to unpack it.
OFF Bedelia staring at Mr. Dimmonds body...
CLOSE ON A BEAUTIFUL VINTAGE LEATHER STEAMER TRUNK
CAMERA reveals TWO PORTERS carry the trunk toward...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 37.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - PLATFORM - DAY
Hannibal ENTERS FRAME behind the two porters and the trunk en
route to the awaiting TRAIN CAR. Dressed in an elegant travel
coat, he strikes a dashing figure as he boards the train.
INT. TRAIN CAR - DAY
Hannibal shares a private compartment with his steamer trunk.
As CAMERA PUSHES IN, Hannibals gaze drifts to the window as
a stunning Italian landscape blurs past...
SNAILS
They topple into a hot pan, a brandy flamb erupts around
them. As the fire starts to fade, a shower of white wine
douses the flame and we EXTINGUISH TO BLACK.
CAMERA PULLS OUT OF A LARGE AFRICAN SNAIL SHELL
The tiny snails from the cochlear garden are tumbling out
onto the dinner table, beautifully cooked. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTERS HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK to reveal Hannibal and Gideon
at the table, flanking the large snail shell. Surrounding
the mouth of the shell are various oysters in the half-shell.
HANNIBAL
Would you rather I extended you the
same kindness as the escargot?
DR. GIDEON
Eating me without my knowledge? I
find knowing to be much more
powerful than not knowing. Why do
you think I'm allowing this?
Hannibal studies his dinner companion, appreciating his bite.
HANNIBAL
Why do you think I'm allowing this?
DR. GIDEON
Snails aren't the only creatures
who prefer to eat in company.
Gideon forks a snail in its shell, which is secured
decoratively so he can use one arm, and pops it in his mouth.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
I'm fascinated to know how you will
feel when all this... happens to you.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 38.
EXT. PALERMO - NORMAN PALACE - DAWN
Time-lapse establishing.
INT. NORMAN CHAPEL - DAWN
Ornate, inspiring and severe.
Morning light glances down from the stained-glass windows,
casting colored pools and dense shadows.
CAMERA prowls the aisles between the rows of pews and finds A
GARGANTUAN HUMAN HEART -- not the organ itself, but a
representation, skillfully molded from the CORPSE OF ANTONY
DIMMOND.
The torso is tucked into a fetal position, hands and feet
have been cut off mid-forearm/mid-shin. The arms and legs
broken and bent to mimic the ventricles and aorta. Dimmonds
head has been removed.
The dark red blood streaking the body and the pallor of the
dead skin create the purplish hues of a recently-removed organ.
The heart is pierced by three swords pushed through the
body at angles, to both secure the organic sculpture in place
and provide a tripod to lift it from the ground.
It almost appears to be a horrifying brazier awaiting flame.
As the sun rises, the multicolored shafts of light beaming
through the stained-glass windows spotlight Hannibals
creation in all its glory...
OFF the tableau, placed amid the gorgeous light, in a
monument to God and mans adulation of him, we...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 39.
Antipasto
Written by
Bryan Fuller
&
Steve Lightfoot
Directed by
Vincenzo Natali
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #301 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2015 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot 
HANNIBAL
"Antipasto"
TEASER
BLACK
A PANNING LIGHT reveals a HUMAN FACE frozen in torment. Then
a HAND grasping for freedom. Our light now reveals the
TORSO, lean and stretched in agony.
WIDER -- our light casts across a vertical group of HUMAN
BODIES, and as we move over it, the bodies ANIMATE, writhing
in torment.
REVERSE WIDE -- to blackness, and our light is now a
PINPOINT. Slowly enlarging as it comes toward us. And a LOW
DRONE accompanies it, indistinct, but unsettling.
The circle of light grows, and MORPHS into an EYE,
unblinking, as our drone increases, and then our eye again
MORPHS, becoming the SPINNING FRONT WHEEL of a motorcycle.
CLOSE ON A GLOVED HAND as it works the throttle, and the
drone PITCHES HIGHER as the bike changes gear.
ON OUR TORTURED HUMAN FORMS as they writhe against one another
-- and then, IMAGE IS SPLIT by the motorcycle's front wheel as
it splashes through the PUDDLE in which they were reflected.
CLOSE ON WATER DROPLETS as they are launched into the air,
like bubbles, a tortured soul reflecting, trapped, in each as
they spin through the air and turn BLOOD RED.
CLOSE ON THE REFLECTIVE BLACK VISOR of our bike's RIDER --
Figures writhe within the margins of the glass.
REVERSE -- WIDE -- behind the motorbike, now DWARFED IN FRAME
as it rides toward an IMMENSE PAIR OF GATES -- Rodin's Gates
of Hell, the sculpted bodies, caught in torment, adorning
each side.
REVERSE AGAIN -- and now we are back on our rider's visor --
the gates fill the visor, and as the rider gets closer, we
watch in the reflection as the gates BEGIN TO OPEN --
And through the opening space we see PARIS OPENING UP BEYOND.
The bike speeds through the gates, sending the tortured
figures into a new frenzy, and then he is through and the
reflection is now the frenzy of a PARIS NIGHT STREET...
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
The motorcycle -- a TRIUMPH BONNEVILLE -- swerves and cuts
between two cars like a knife through butter.
The Bonneville dances between lanes as the rider throws his
weight from side to side.
We enjoy his progress; his skill and prowess as he owns the
road.
CLOSE ON the reflective visor of his helmet, the world beyond
zooming by, reflected in the black glass.
His gloved hands on the throttle; his foot as it kicks the
powerful bike through the gears.
The Bonneville BRAKES to a sudden halt. The rider gets off.
Dressed in Belstaff. He removes the helmet. For a brief
second, those bodies writhe across it again -- there, and then
gone -- and we see the rider now: it is HANNIBAL LECTER.
As we haven't seen him before. Looser, longer hair; a little
rougher; a man free of responsibilities.
INT. PARIS PARTY VENUE - NIGHT
PALE YELLOW LIQUID fizzes into a glass flute. A hand takes the
champagne and moves from a bar, and we go with it, revealing --
A PARTY CROWD -- under a banner: "Bon Voyage, Roman Fell."
It is a well-heeled leaving party for DR. ROMAN FELL, a tall,
lean man of 50, sporting a fine academic's beard. He holds
court in the center of the room. He loves the attention of a
crowd of young acolytes and well-wishers.
We move through the throng, toward him. As people part in front
of us, we REVERSE to reveal this is Hannibal Lecter's POV.
His eyes fixed on Roman Fell.
STAY ON Hannibal as he moves lithely through the crowd,
bodies between him and us, he is there and then gone -- like
a tiger moving through the long grass. His eyes never
leaving his prey. Appraising, calculating...
A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN crosses his path, makes eye contact.
Hannibal returns it. Raises his glass.
She smiles, but Hannibal inclines his head and passes on the
invitation to linger. Steps around her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 2.
ANTONY DIMMOND, 40s, tall, lean, somewhat louche-looking --
his clothes expensive, but old and worn -- darts suddenly at
a WAITRESS with a tray of champagne, snaffles two glasses.
He tosses one back quickly, then notices Hannibal noticing.
ANTONY DIMMOND
(re: his two glasses)
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
(then)
Antony Dimmond. I'd offer a hand,
but--
HANNIBAL
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Do you know Roman well?
Dimmond clocks Hannibal's eyes wandering back toward Dr. Fell
amid a circle of people.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
You were staring with the thinlyveiled disdain of a man who does.
I was his TA at Cambridge. He was
insufferable even then.
Dimmond finishes the second flute of champagne and puts it on a
passing tray. Grabs two more and hands Hannibal one of them.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Have you read his books? They're
terrible. You know they're
terrible, but you're too polite to
say. Blink if you agree.
(off his blink)
See.
Dimmond pulls a weathered paperback from his coat pocket.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
That doesn't stop him squatting
over a keyboard and depositing a
fresh one every six to eight
months. It has taken me six to
eight months to write one line.
HANNIBAL
Why?
Dimmond stares at Hannibal a moment, as if the answer is
abundantly clear, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 3.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Poetry is hard. Was too hard for
Roman. Easier for him to slide into
academia and dissect the efforts of
others than stand by his own words.
HANNIBAL
One can appreciate another's words
without dissecting them. Though,
on occasion, dissection is the only
thing that will do.
OFF Hannibal's glance in Dr. Fell's direction...
CUT TO:
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
Dr. Roman Fell walks home, merrily drunk, excited by the
prospect of his new adventure.
Behind him, our Bonneville idles slowly across the street.
As Hannibal is putting on his helmet:
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir.
Dr. Fell is reflected in the black maw of Hannibal's visor as
Hannibal slowly follows him, then passes him by. CAMERA
follows Dr. Fell as Hannibal's Bonneville speeds away.
EXT./INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
Dr. Fell enters his building and heads up the stairs. He
stops short when he sees Hannibal standing outside his door.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir?
CUT TO:
INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
BLOOD RED WINE SPLASHES up the sides of a glass.
Hands place an OPERA RECORD on a turntable. CLOSE ON the
needle as it drops.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 4.
BUTTER melts in a pan.
LIVER is tossed in with a sizzle... a dash of brandy is added
and flares into flame.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's knife and fork as it slices through the
liver on his plate.
A blush of blood STAINS the juices on the plate. He brings
it to his lips. Chews.
Delicious.
CUT TO:
PUSH IN OMINOUSLY
On the inside of the closed apartment door.
CLOSER and CLOSER till the handle turns and it opens toward
us -- and a stylishly-dressed woman enters.
MRS. FELL!
She hears the opera and smiles.
Moves toward the dining room.
She halts in the doorway.
CAMERA moves around her to register the cause of her confusion.
MRS. FELL'S POV
Hannibal Lecter sits at the table, linen and cutlery
immaculately placed. Savoring his food, a nice Bordeaux and
the music.
Hannibal smiles up at her.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 5.
ACT ONE
DARKNESS
A REFLECTIVE SHAPE moves toward CAMERA. It is --
A LARGE SILVER DOME.
It covers a sizeable serving platter that is moving through a
darkened room until, finally, the REFLECTION OF ABEL GIDEON
bows across its surface. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
ABEL GIDEON sits at the beautifully-appointed table; he has a
drip in one arm and a chest monitor. Under the table, we see
that Gideon is now missing both legs at the thigh. (NOTE:
This takes place between Eps. #206 and 207.)
The silver dome turns and Gideon watches his reflection SLIDE
DOWN the length of the platter. The platter is lifted from
the sidecar and placed in the middle of the dinner table.
The large silver dome rises off the platter as if by unseen
hands floating somewhere in the darkness. Underneath the
dome and further unveiled by a SILKY CLOUD OF SMOKE:
GIDEON'S LEG
From hip to ankle, beautifully roasted with SUGAR CANE QUILLS
sticking out of the flesh in a pleasing grid pattern. It's
mounted on a plank, like a long whole ham.
DR. GIDEON
You really are the Devil.
Certainly seem to enjoy it. You
have a click in your hoof.
FROM GIDEON'S POV -- HANNIBAL
He appears to MATERIALIZE out of the THINNING MIST rising off
the bed of smoking sprigs of thyme.
HANNIBAL
The Devil has been a yoke on the
neck of humanity since we first
began to think and dream.
(then)
I for a much shorter time.
Gideon takes a deep, appreciative breath.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 6.
DR. GIDEON
You admit the yoke.
(then)
Smells like candy apples. And
thyme. You smoked me in thyme.
HANNIBAL
Smoked. Glazed. Slow-cooked.
Served on a sugar cane quill. You
will be falling off the bone.
Hannibal plucks a sugar cane quill, pulling out a MEDALLION
OF MEAT from Gideon's severed leg, like a Popsicle stick, and
placing it on his guest's plate.
DR. GIDEON
Well, of course.
(then)
And with these rarified dishes you
so thoughtfully prepare...
(then)
...do we all taste different?
HANNIBAL
Everyone has their flavor.
Gideon's eyes narrow, not giving Hannibal the satisfaction of
seeing him impressed one way or another.
DR. GIDEON
Cannibalism was standard behavior
among our ancestors. Missing link
is only missing because we ate him.
HANNIBAL
This isn't cannibalism, Abel. It's
only cannibalism if we're equals.
DR. GIDEON
It's only cannibalism if you eat
me. But you feel this is just the
natural order of things? Everybody
gets et?
HANNIBAL
Be he fat or be he lean.
DR. GIDEON
My last leg standing across the
table from me, and I still wrestle
with the urges to fight or flee.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 7.
HANNIBAL
It's called "terminal restlessness."
The body fills with adrenaline and
feels compelled to go-go-go.
DR. GIDEON
"Go-go-go"? I've already got up
and gone. This is posthumous.
HANNIBAL
You're not dead yet, Abel. You
still have to eat.
DR. GIDEON
No, I don't.
Gideon takes a bite of the medallion of meat before him.
It's truly something special, but once again, he doesn't give
Hannibal the satisfaction. Hannibal smiles, regardless.
Gideon is about to take another bite, but pauses to glance
around the beautifully-appointed room and at his devilish host.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
At this point, there is absolutely
nothing I have to do. But I don't
want to spoil the fairy tale, do I?
You and your gingerbread house.
HANNIBAL
Let it be a fairy tale, then.
(then)
Once upon a time...
OFF Hannibal...
GRAND MUSIC begins to rise, taking us to --
INT. FLORENCE BALLROOM - NIGHT
A dazzlingly-dressed couple as they sweep ACROSS FRAME in a
stylish waltz.
It could be a scene from Cinderella's dreams... The glitter
of jewelry and champagne. The dash of black tie and
ballgowns; the dance floor filled with couples sweeping in
graceful patterns across it.
CAMERA moves through the dancing figures to find a
particularly-elegant couple and stays with them as they swoop
across the floor... They waltz around CAMERA, faces hidden
from us as they move in perfect union, until the music comes
to an end and the man dips his partner low to the ground --
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 8.
Revealing Hannibal and a stunning BEDELIA DU MAURIER... a
prince and his princess. He smiles down at her, both
somewhat breathless.
A beat, and then he pulls her back to him.
HANNIBAL
Bellissima.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
Hannibal snags them both champagne off a passing tray.
SOGLIATO (O.S.)
Dr. Fell, I hope you translate as
well as you waltz.
SOGLIATO is a smooth, oily Italian, late 30s. Impeccably
dressed. An academic who wears his ego like armor. Sogliato
kisses Bedelia's hand and then shakes Hannibal's. He stands
with SIGNOR and SIGNORA ALBIZZI -- president of the museum's
governing board.
SIGNOR ALBIZZI
Our new appointee was confirmed by
the board after close questioning.
SOGLIATO
You've examined him in medieval
Italian, and I will not deny his
language is admirable.
Bedelia watches this exchange. Intrigued. Aware others in
the crowd are observing. As is Sogliato...
HANNIBAL
Thank you.
SOGLIATO
For a straniero.
Sogliato smiles at the audience now ear-wigging shamelessly.
Bedelia is watching Hannibal, the way his eyes go dead for a
second at the insult before he smiles.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Are you familiar with the
personalities of pre-Renaissance
Florence? I think not. (a smile for Bedelia)
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 9.
(MORE)
Dr. Fell might hold in his hand --
in his non-Italian hand -- a note
from Dante Alighieri himself. Would
he recognize it? I think not.
Bedelia intercedes:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato, would you do me
the honor of a dance?
Bedelia offers her arm. Keen to lead him away. Hannibal
noting her intention. As they turn away:
HANNIBAL "Allegro mi sembrava Amor tenendo /
meo core in mano, e ne le braccia
avea / madonna involta in un drappo
dormendo. / Poi la svegliava, e
d'esto core ardendo / lei paventosa
umilmente pascea; / appreso gir lo
ne vedea piangendo."
Some of those listening applaud loudly at this stirring
recital. Sogliato hates it. Bedelia smiles at Hannibal.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dante's first sonnet. It
fascinated Cavalcanti. The eating
of the heart is a powerful image.
Hannibal doesn't have to be smug; Signor Albizzi is smug for
him. Off that smugness:
SOGLIATO
If he's such an expert on Dante,
let him lecture on Dante, to the
Studiolo. Let him face them.
(then)
Extempore.
The reaction of the crowd says this is a strong challenge.
Hannibal merely inclines his head.
HANNIBAL
I'm happy to sing for my supper.
He holds Sogliato's gaze. Battle met.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato.
Bedelia looks to Sogliato who takes her hand to dance.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 10.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Hannibal smiles at Bedelia who doesn't return his smile.
EXT. FLORENCE - NIGHT
CAMERA moves across the city as the evening gathers and the
streets empty, the fan pattern of the cobbles shining in a
drizzle. CAMERA finds A SILHOUETTED MAN on a balcony.
CLOSE ON HANNIBAL
As we watch, his face becomes washed with amber, as if under
liquid, flowing and indistinct.
We are now --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
STAY ON this Hannibal in amber, framed within the proscenium
arch of his balcony, looking out over Florence...
HANNIBAL
We are among the palaces built six
hundred years ago by the merchant
princes, the kingmakers and
connivers of Renaissance Florence.
...until Bedelia reaches for the glass of brandy he is
offering her and breaks the illusion.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
As connivers of modern Florence.
Hannibal looks out over the city, considering its romance.
HANNIBAL
I've found a peace here that I
would preserve. I've killed hardly
anybody during our residence.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You created the vacancy at the
Palazzo Capponi by removing the
former curator.
HANNIBAL
A simple process requiring a few
seconds' work on the old man and a
modest outlay for two bags of cement.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You no longer have ethical
problems, Hannibal. You have
aesthetical ones.
(re: her zipper)
Could you?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 11.
She turns and Hannibal stands behind her and slowly unzips
her dress, revealing her bare back.
HANNIBAL
Ethics become aesthetics.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You seem more concerned with making
appearances than maintaining them.
HANNIBAL
If this is about my position at the
Palazzo, once the path was cleared,
I won the job fairly. On my merits.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes, even the most-contentious
Florentines can't resist the verse
of Dante ringing off frescoed walls.
HANNIBAL
One contentious Florentine can.
Bedelia crosses into:
INT. HANNIBAL'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY/BEDELIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
A large, freestanding CAST-IRON BATH in there. Bedelia
enters and turns the ornate taps. Water thunders out. She
turns to see Hannibal in the doorway.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Have you given serious thought to
eating Professor Sogliato?
HANNIBAL
My killing Sogliato now would not
preserve the peace.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Your peace is without morality.
HANNIBAL
Morality doesn't exist. Only morale.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How you feel today.
HANNIBAL
How do you feel today?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I still believe I'm in conscious
control of my actions. Given your
history, that's a good day.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 12.
OFF Bedelia's soft, polite smile...
CLOSE ON A RUSHING TAP
It is turned off and the steaming torrent becomes a DRIP. The
drip sends RINGS spreading to the deep sides of the bathtub.
Bedelia lies back and IMMERSES herself under the water. The
surface six inches from her mouth. Like Ophelia lying under
the surface of the lake... HOLDING HER BREATH -- A SINGLE
BUBBLE escapes her lips and slowly pops on the surface. She
stares upward. Slowly, her eyes close.
Around her, the water DARKENS TO BLACK, as if the bottom of
the bath has fallen away to reveal an ENDLESS DEPTH. And now
Bedelia is SLOWLY SINKING, horizontally sliding downward into
the Stygian dark...
BEDELIA'S POV -- amid the darkness, GNARLED ROOTS clamber
around one another, slick and wet amid the water...
LOWER and LOWER she sinks, beyond this level, into the next.
Until finally she comes to the BOTTOM and her body comes to
rest in a black silt that RISES AROUND HER in SWIRLS and
WISPS, as if welcoming her into its grasp.
ON BEDELIA'S CLOSED EYES
Another SOLITARY BUBBLE rises from her lips, and we RISE AWAY
from her to follow its progress.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
An area of ARTISAN FOOD STORES -- the streets thronged with
shoppers. CAMERA finds Bedelia among them, moving through
the crowd, a distant focus in her eyes.
CLOSE ON BEDELIA
A POLICE CONSTABLE comes down the street toward her. He
smiles, tips his hat to the beautiful lady. She nods, her
smile fading the moment he passes.
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
An elegant Florentine fine grocer filled with fine wines and
exotic cheeses. Bedelia approaches the CLERK at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
CUT TO:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 13.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
Bedelia sits on a bench, her shopping bag from Vera dal 1926
next to her. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal...
...she sits on the platform of a train station.
A CCTV camera sits above her, covering the length of the
platform. Bedelia looks up at it and then back to the TRAIN
which is about to depart. Its open carriage doors are an
invitation... Will she take it?
OFF Bedelia...
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 14.
ACT TWO
EXT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PUSHES IN as headlights roll up the driveway and
across the siding of the house as a car approaches.
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - FOYER/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA moves through the darkened hall until FRAMING AN
EXTREME CLOSE-UP ON THE FRONT DOORKNOB.
The SOUND OF A KEY in the door --
Breaks the quiet. LIGHT SPILLS in as the door opens.
Bedelia enters.
She turns to the living room as CAMERA reveals almost every
piece of her furniture is beneath a drop cloth, protected
against dust for an indefinite period of time -- just as she
left it before she fled Hannibal and the FBI.
(NOTE: Bedelia has just come from the FBIs interrogation
room, as seen in Ep. #212, Tome-wan.)
Bedelia takes in the shroud of the chairs, walking the rooms
periphery, searching for some sense of herself. She pauses.
AN EMPTY CHAIR
Where she left a glass-cut perfume bottle for Hannibal weeks
earlier. Its gone. She considers its absence, then:
CLOSE ON THE SPIKE OF A CORKSCREW
It TWISTS through the cork in a bottle of wine. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia opens the bottle of wine and pours herself a glass.
She reacts, twists the bottle upward to stem the flow. One
last drop of wine falls into the glass and she listens.
CAMERA FOLLOWS BEDELIA
She moves into the hall as a distinct sound grows louder and
louder until she recognizes it. The shower is running.
INT. BEDELIA'S HOUSE - BEDROOM/BATHROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
She moves into her bedroom, toward the open door of her
bathroom through which she can see bloody clothes strewn
across the floor and a MAN IN HER SHOWER.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 15.
HANNIBAL
He stands naked in Bedelias shower, blood thinly streaming
from his various cuts and wounds as water washes them clean.
He twists the pressure valve closed until the water only drips.
Hannibal steps out of the shower, allowing the water to bead
off of him, before grabbing a towel to dry himself.
There is a familiar CLICK of a gun cocking and Hannibal
realizes he is no longer alone.
HANNIBALS POV -- THE SHADOWS
He slowly pushes the bathroom door open, casting light into
the bedroom and finally illuminating Bedelia sitting calmly,
holding a gun in one hand and a glass of wine in the other.
BEDELIAS POV -- HANNIBAL
He stands naked, silhouetted in the doorway.
HANNIBAL
May I get dressed?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You may.
Hannibal lets his towel drop and pulls on his underwear.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER (CONTD)
What have you done, Hannibal?
HANNIBAL
Ive taken off my person suit.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You let them see you.
HANNIBAL
I let them see enough.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How does that feel? Being seen?
Hannibal shrugs on his shirt and buttons it.
HANNIBAL
Youre not in a position to ask,
Dr. Du Maurier. You ended our
patient-psychiatrist relationship.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 16.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I lacked the appropriate skills to
continue your treatment.
HANNIBAL
I never found you to be lacking.
She studies him a moment, then:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im sorry I didnt leave you with a
suitable substitute for therapy.
(then)
Is Will Graham still alive?
Hannibal goes still. A quiet moment as he curbs his emotions.
HANNIBAL
Will Graham was not a suitable
substitute for therapy.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What was he?
HANNIBAL
Is this professional curiosity?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Almost entirely.
HANNIBAL
Do you trust me?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not entirely.
(then)
Trust is driven by an emotional
sense of what to do, and a very
conscious sense what not to do.
HANNIBAL
Are you taking into account my
beliefs about your intentions?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My intentions?
HANNIBAL
Human motivation can be little more
than lucid greed.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Greed and blind optimism.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 17.
HANNIBAL
Youre optimistic I wont kill you.
OFF Bedelia as she smoothly un-cocks the gun in her hand,
sets it aside and takes a sip of wine.
PRE-LAP A SUDDEN SQUEALING --
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
The hurly-burly of the Paris train about to depart. Lastminute PASSENGERS jumping aboard.
CONDUCTORS make their last calls.
Train doors SLAM.
The SIGNAL LIGHTS change.
The Paris train pulls out of the station slowly, revealing
Bedelia still sitting on her bench, watching it go...
CCTV -- looking down on Bedelia as she looks up at the
camera... looking anything but optimistic.
MUSIC RISES over her, taking us to --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - DAY
A darkened room. The music plays as Hannibal works on his
speech to the Studiolo, rapt and transported.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's face and hands, light flickering over
them as he works with slides and a projector.
Hannibal studies paintings and poems, writing notes, struck
by their power. Absorbed in a world of beauty and intellect.
Happy.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - CORRIDOR - DAY
ON HANNIBAL
Smiling, happy with life, as he walks down a vaulted
corridor, light and shadow alternating on his face as he
passes the windows...
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY/FOYER - DAY
He comes down a wide flight of stone stairs and into the foyer.
Bright sunlight shines in from the outside.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 18.
Hannibal walks toward it, the LENS FLARING as he becomes a
silhouette, his face going to darkness as the bright sunlight
of the doorframe envelopes him.
MATCH CUT TO:
EXT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - DAY
As Hannibal emerges onto the steps and looks across the busy
square.
ANTONY DIMMOND (O.S.)
Hello! Bonjour!
Hannibal does not realize this is directed at him, but as he
heads down the stairs, a hand grabs his arm.
ON HANNIBAL -- for a second his eyes threaten violence -- but
then he turns to see:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sporting stubble and wild hair. He seems absentminded, but
his eyes are sharp.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
We met in Paris a few months back.
Sorry, didn't mean to startle you,
but here I was and then, there you
were... I never forget a face...
HANNIBAL
Antony Dimmond.
Dimmond beams with pleasure.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Nice to be remembered.
HANNIBAL
You're hard to forget.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What are you doing in Florence?
Are you working with Roman?
HANNIBAL
Dr. Fell?
ANTONY DIMMOND
I heard he took an appointment at
the Capponi library.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 19.
ON HANNIBAL -- Dimmond is astute beneath his manner. Doesn't
miss much, it seems.
HANNIBAL
Yes, he's the new curator and
translator of the Palazzo Capponi.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Evidently, the last one eloped with
a woman or someone's money or both.
Hannibal is cool.
HANNIBAL
That's the commonly-held belief.
(then)
You just missed Roman.
Dimmond looks crestfallen.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Did I? Was hoping to take the piss.
Hannibal studies Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
Spare the piss for the time being.
If you're free, my wife and I would
love to have you for dinner.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 20.
ACT THREE
CLOSE ON A SNAIL
It moves at a snail's pace across a slick, fleshy surface.
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal it is one snail among dozens.
We are --
INT. COCHLEAR GARDEN - DARK (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK until it reveals a plump snail
feasting on the tip of a human finger.
The snails are crawling across the flesh of an arm resting in
a pool of wine marinade, also consumed by dozens of snails.
Fingers of the living reach INTO FRAME and pluck the plump
snail from the fingers of the marinating severed arm.
CLOSE ON A PLUMP SNAIL
CAMERA RACK FOCUSES onto Hannibal studying the snail as it
crawls across his fingers. He's dressed in a three-piece
plaid suit and an apron, harvesting his cochlear garden.
HANNIBAL
Listen.
He holds his breath for a moment and we hear dozens of little
RASP-LIKE TONGUES CHEWING on Gideon's severed arm.
Reveal Gideon.
He is listening, but not as impressed as Hannibal -- as it is
his flesh the snails are chewing. He sits on a motorized
wheelchair. His left arm is missing below the shoulder. The
fresh amputation wound is tightly dressed.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
They prefer eating in company.
Hannibal plucks snails from their moist roosts, collecting
them in an elegant glass cylinder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
I've kept cochlear gardens since I
was a young man, fattening snails on
herbs and vine leaves. Like all of
us, what they eat greatly influences
and enhances their flavor.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 21.
DR. GIDEON
When I'm not eating myself, you
wish me to be eating oysters.
Drinking sweet wines, snacking on
acorns. All to make me tastier?
HANNIBAL
Oh yes.
(re: the snails)
And you are making them tastier.
DR. GIDEON
And I you. Imagine what you must
taste like. Won't be long before
someone takes a bite out of you.
Hannibal notes Gideon's tone.
HANNIBAL
When agitated, sea snails produce a
purple dye. Its color won't fade.
Becomes brighter with weathering.
(then)
You're becoming brighter, Abel.
Dying hasn't dulled you one bit.
Gideon politely turns his attention back to the snails:
DR. GIDEON
The snails are certainly having a
lovely experience, fattened on me
in a red-wine marinade. They have
no idea they're going to be eaten.
(then)
We do.
CLOSE ON AN OYSTER SHELL
CAMERA crawls across its surface. A SHUCKING BLADE ENTERS
FRAME and splits the shell, at its hinge, with a twist,
removing the lid and revealing the oyster.
The oyster in its cup is placed on a bed of ice, SPINNING to
reveal it is joining a dozen oysters fanned across a platter.
A woman's hand ENTERS FRAME and takes an oyster.
CAMERA follows the oyster to reveal Bedelia. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Bedelia sits with Hannibal and Antony Dimmond at the table.
She is hiding her fears well, surrounded by a tray of oysters
and nuts. Hannibal at ease, a platter of meats between him and
Dimmond, who enjoys the hospitality, pours himself more wine.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 22.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(to Dimmond)
How well do you know the Fells?
She shoots the oyster in her imperceptibly-trembling hand.
ANTONY DIMMOND
As well as anybody. Which'd be not
really. Lydia a friend of yours?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not really.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I'd be surprised to hear she had
one. We share a mutual detestation.
She disapproves of my disapproval.
HANNIBAL
What do you disapprove of?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Roman, mainly. Lydia isn't quite
bright enough to see I'm just
intimidated. Roman does, of course.
How he loves to strike fear.
HANNIBAL
Dante wrote that fear is almost as
bitter as death.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Dante wasn't dead when he wrote it.
HANNIBAL
Are you traveling alone, Antony?
The question sends a shudder down Bedelia's spine.
ANTONY DIMMOND
It's the only way I travel.
HANNIBAL
Roman is speaking to the Studiolo
Friday. On Dante. You should come.
If Bedelia had been chewing, she would have choked.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sounds appropriately hellish.
Dimmond clocks Bedelia as she reaches for another oyster.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 23.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Are you avoiding meats?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I'm trying not to eat anything with
a central nervous system.
Dimmond calls out the food in her corner of the table:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Oysters, acorns and Marsala. That's
what ancient Romans would feed
animals to improve their flavor.
Bedelia does her best to hide her realization, steadies
herself. Hannibal watches her very closely as she digests.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My husband has quite a
sophisticated palette. He's
particular about how I taste.
Bedelia shoots another oyster back. Hannibal stares. An
uncomfortably-long beat as Dimmond considers that. Finally:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Is it that kind of party?
HANNIBAL
It is not that kind of party.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No, it really isn't.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Shame. You were both suddenly so
fascinating.
HARD CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Dimmond stands in the open doorway, shrugging on his coat as
Hannibal and Bedelia see him out.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Buonasera.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Buonasera.
HANNIBAL
Buonasera.
Hannibal closes the door as Dimmond walks away.
A moment, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 24.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(curious)
You let him go.
HANNIBAL
What would you have me do, Bedelia?
As Bedelia ponders Hannibal's question...
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
Bedelia walks down the street.
CAMERA follows her from across the street, keeping pace.
ANGLE ON ANTONY DIMMOND
Also walking the streets. Moving through the crowds,
following Bedelia.
INTERCUT their progress.
Bedelia moves with purpose. Resolved. Anxious.
Dimmond moves with greater freedom, not a care in the world.
Is he stalking her?
Bedelia crosses the street, narrowly avoiding a car that
screeches to a halt before it would have run her down.
Dimmond turns to the sound to see Bedelia disappearing into:
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
Navigating her way through the pastas and hams, Bedelia
approaches the clerk at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
As the clerk prepares the order, Antony strides across the
grocery store, directly toward Bedelia.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Florentines say Vera dal, with its
wealth of cheeses and truffles,
smells like the feet of God.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Hello, Mr. Dimmond.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 25.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I don't know if it's you, me or God,
but there's something in the air.
The clerk hands Bedelia her bag.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Dinner was lovely. I must confess
to a certain abstract curiosity
about your husband... Mrs. Fell.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(stares, then)
Good-bye, Mr. Dimmond.
Bedelia takes the bag and exits. Dimmond follows.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
CAMERA leads Bedelia out of Vera dal 1926 as Dimmond stands
in the doorway behind her, watching her go a moment, then:
ANTONY DIMMOND
I asked one of the scholars at the
Palazzo to point me in the
direction of Dr. Fell. He raised
one craggy old finger and pointed
it directly at your husband. I
thought the old codger made a
mistake, but there was no mistake.
Bedelia keeps walking. Dimmond quickens his pace to catch up.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Even in the teeth of evidence,
you're just going to walk away.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Those aren't the teeth you should
be concerned about.
Bedelia tries to control the tremble building inside her.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Where are Roman and Lydia?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I don't know.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Does your husband know?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 26.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He's not my husband. He is
something entirely Other.
ANTONY DIMMOND
The man is curating an exposition
of Atrocious Torture Instruments.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
The essence of the worst of the
human spirit is not found in the
iron maiden or the whetted edge.
Elemental ugliness, Mr. Dimmond, is
found in the faces of the crowd.
(then)
However you think you're going to
manipulate this situation to your
advantage, think again.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Bluebeard's wife. Secrets you're
not to know, yet sworn to keep.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
If I'm to be Bluebeard's wife, I
would prefer to be the last one.
(then)
Unless you believe you are beyond
harm, go to the police.
ANTONY DIMMOND
You want to be caught.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 27.
ACT FOUR
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PULLS BACK to find her lying flat on her back, covered
in blood. Shes breathing heavy, trembling.
There is a faint gurgling, choking sound that slowly begins to
register on her conscious mind through the sharp HUM of her
ringing ears and THUMPING of her circulatory system. She turns
and CAMERA reveals, lying on the floor next to her, is...
A DYING MAN
Hes dazed, choking on the blood overflowing from his mouth,
eyes rolling back until only the whites are visible.
He stiffens. After a long, horrible moment, he dies.
Bedelia stares, her jagged breath rattles in her ears, heart
racing. She sits up, unable to take her eyes off the dead
man lying next to her.
She raises a hand to brush the matted hair from her face, and
stops. Her hand looks like it has been dunked in a bucket of
blood up to her mid-forearm.
QUICK CUT TO:
MERE MOMENTS EARLIER
Bedelia straddles her PATIENT, holding him by the collar of
his shirt with one hand, the other hand is jammed down his
throat up to the mid-forearm. His eyes bulge.
BACK TO:
BEDELIA
She rises INTO FRAME, standing over her dead patient, and
CAMERA reveals Hannibal standing in the hallway behind her.
HANNIBAL
Bedelia.
Bedelia barely startles, turning to see Hannibal behind her.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He attacked me.
HANNIBAL
Is that your blood?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 28.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No.
Hannibal crouches next to the dead patient and examines his
hands -- theyre clean, free of blood or tissue.
HANNIBAL
You were... defending yourself?
A slow, guilty nod.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was reckless. Reckless violence
is a poor survival mechanism.
HANNIBAL
This wasnt reckless violence. It
was a controlled use of force.
Bedelia is haunted by the truth, tries to reassure herself:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not confused. My imagination
isnt filling in the gaps. I know
what happened here.
HANNIBAL
Do you?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He was your patient before he was
mine, Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
He died under your care.
(then)
Aggression can be an effective
means of maintaining order when
dealing with an unruly patient.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not an aggressive person.
HANNIBAL
Im sure you reacted with a level
of aggression that was uniquely
appropriate for this encounter.
(then)
But you werent defending yourself.
Hannibal stares, seeing right through her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 29.
A SERIES OF CLOSE SHOTS ON -- BEDELIA:
She unbuttons her bloody blouse, slipping it off her
shoulders and peeling it down her abdomen, exposing her
bloodstained undergarments. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - BATHROOM/BEDROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia is silhouetted in the doorway, much like Hannibal
was. CAMERA reveals Hannibal watching her from the shadows
of the bedroom, much like Bedelia was watching Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
I can help you tell the version of
events you want to be told. I can
help you, if you ask me to.
She opens the shower door and turns the nozzle. The
showerhead sprinkles and surges to life.
Bedelia raises her bloodstained hand to the shower stream,
allowing the red to wash away in rivulets down her arm.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
As Hannibals helpful grin starts to dawn...
ON BEDELIA
She stands under the shower, the water washes over her.
STREAMS OF WATER from the showerhead slow until they become
BEADS SUSPENDED IN MIDAIR above Bedelias upturned face.
MATCH CUT TO:
SCATTERED MOTES OF DUST
They float through the SLANT OF LIGHT cutting through the
darkness over Bedelias upturned face. We are now --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT (PRESENT)
Bedelia is beautifully coiffed and elegantly dressed. She
sits among the dragons of the Studiolo, dozens of the mostrenowned medieval and Renaissance scholars in the world.
They sit in rows of folding chairs, surrounded by DOZENS OF
TORTURE INSTRUMENTS, all in various states of restoration.
Hannibals voice creeps into Bedelias consciousness:
HANNIBAL (O.S.)
In accord with my own taste for the
pre-Renaissance...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 30.
The SLANT OF LIGHT over her head projects an IMAGE on a large
drop cloth suspended from the ceiling like a screen.
AN ILLUSTRATION OF SATAN
His three faces, half-immersed in ice, chewing on Brutus,
Cassius and Judas Iscariot, while weeping. Hannibal is a
dark figure pacing the aisles as he speaks:
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
...I present the case of Pietro
della Vigna, whose treachery earned
him a place in Dantes Hell.
ON HANNIBAL
He steps into the light, in front of the illustration of
Satan, its horns peeking out from behind his head.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
He was disgraced and blinded for
betraying his emperors trust.
He presses the switch in his palm and the illustration behind
him is now depicting Dante's nine levels of Hell.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dantes pilgrim finds him in the
seventh level of the Inferno,
reserved for suicides. Like Judas
Iscariot, he died by hanging.
Hannibal paces the aisle, slowly approaching Bedelia.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Judas and Pietro della Vigna are
linked in Dantes Inferno.
Hannibal places a gentle hand on Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal and hanging, then, linked
since antiquity, the image
appearing again and again in art.
An ART SLIDE appears on the drop cloth. Hannibal begins
pacing again, taking his hand off Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
This is the earliest-known
depiction of the Crucifixion,
carved on an ivory box in Gaul
about A.D. four hundred.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 31.
(MORE)
It includes the death by hanging of
Judas, his face upturned to the
branch that suspends him.
NEW ANGLE
A NEW SLIDE appears as CAMERA reveals Antony Dimmond quietly
listening to Hannibals lecture from the back of the room.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
On the doors of the Benevento
Cathedral, we see Judas hanging
with his bowels falling out.
Hannibal squeezes the remote and ANOTHER SLIDE appears.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
And here, from a fifteenth-century
edition of The Inferno, is Pietro
della Vignas body hanging from a
bleeding tree. I wont belabor the
parallels with Judas Iscariot.
ON BEDELIA
Her eyes wander until they find Mr. Dimmond listening
intently. Her face goes slack.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal, hanging, self-destruction.
Hannibal addresses Bedelia almost directly without singling
her out in the audience, all with a glance.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
"Io fei gibetto a me de le mie case."
(translating)
I make my own home be my gallows.
Bedelia averts her eyes just as Hannibal notices Dimmond.
His composure only falters for a brief moment.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Mr. Dimmond. Welcome. Please join
us. We were just about to discuss
the matter of chewing in Dante.
Dimmond smiles politely, then takes a seat. Hannibal glances
at Bedelia, but her chair is now vacant.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 32.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia hurries away from Hannibals presentation as APPLAUSE
erupts from the Studiolo.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT
The dry-yet-enthusiastic applause trickles to a stop as
Hannibal nods his thanks to the Studiolo as they stand and
filter out of the hall.
HANNIBAL
Thank you for your kind attention.
Sogliato is gathering his belongings as Hannibal approaches.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Would you say I secured my
position, Professor Sogliato?
SOGLIATO
The Studiolo seems satisfied.
Dimmond waltzes up, joining Hannibal and Sogliato.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Satisfied? That applause was
downright enthusiastic in its soft
and dusty way.
SOGLIATO
Dottor Fell is a friend of yours?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Ive only known him a short time.
Still, the tales I could tell.
SOGLIATO
Please do.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What kind of friend would I be?
SOGLIATO
What kind of friend, indeed.
(to Hannibal)
Dottore.
Without another word, Sogliato moves off, suppressing an eye
roll, joining the Studiolo as they exit. Dimmond eyes the
various torture instruments surrounding them:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 33.
ANTONY DIMMOND
An exposition of Atrocious Torture
Instruments appeals to connoisseurs
of the very worst in mankind.
HANNIBAL
Now that ceaseless exposure has
calloused us to the lewd and the
vulgar, it is instructive to see
what still seems wicked to us.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What still slaps the clammy flab of
our submissive consciousness hard
enough to get our attention?
HANNIBAL
What wickedness has your attention,
Mr. Dimmond?
Hannibal and Dimmond circle a BREAKING WHEEL as they assess
each others intentions.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Yours, Dr. Fell. I have no
delusions of morality; if I had, I
wouldve gone to la polizia. (then)
Im curious what fate befell Dr.
Fell to see you here in his stead.
Hannibal studies Mr. Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
You may have to strap me to the
breaking wheel to loosen my tongue.
ANTONY DIMMOND
No torture was required to loosen
your wife/not-your-wifes tongue.
(off Hannibal's look)
She overestimated my affection for
the genuine Dr. Fell. Clearly, you
found him as distasteful as I did.
HANNIBAL
On the contrary.
ANTONY DIMMOND
We can twist ourselves into all
manner of uncomfortable positions
just to maintain appearances, with
or without a breaking wheel.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 34.
HANNIBAL
Are you here to twist me into an
uncomfortable position?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Im here to help you untwist... to
our mutual benefit.
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia has donned a coat and is carrying a small suitcase,
hurrying toward the door. She reaches for the doorknob and
stops short. Its starting to turn...
The door opens and Hannibal ushers Antony Dimmond inside. He
averts his eyes away from Bedelias gaze.
POV FROM THE HALL
As Hannibal slowly shuts the door on anyones escape.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 35.
ACT FIVE
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER -- SLOW MOTION
VIOLENT SHADOWS dance across her face. We are in the fog of
Bedelias experience, her hearing numbed by the wash of her
circulatory system and a HIGH-PITCHED RINGING intermittently
broken by STACCATO BURSTS of a terrified heart.
CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BACK
The violent shadows continue their SLOW DANCE across Bedelia
and the wall behind her as Hannibal brutally and efficiently
dispatches Antony Dimmond to the afterlife. Her suitcase is
next to her, her coat draped over her chair. We are --
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - NIGHT
Bedelia is unflinching despite jagged breaths rattling at the
back of her throat. Hannibal stands over Dimmonds corpse.
HANNIBAL
Observe or participate.
The words dont immediately land with Bedelia, still stunned
at what she has witnessed. She slowly looks at Hannibal:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What?
HANNIBAL
Are you, in this very moment,
observing or participating?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Observing.
The corners of Hannibals lips curl ever so slightly.
HANNIBAL
If you can see me, I can see you.
Hannibal leans over Dimmonds broken corpse in a FRAME
reminiscent of him leaning over Bedelias dead patient.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
You say youre observing, but this,
this is participation, Bedelia.
(off her look)
Did you know what he would do when
you asked him to help you? Id
prefer you answer honestly.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 36.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
This always goes better if one of
us is honest.
HANNIBAL
Have you been honest with yourself?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was curious.
HANNIBAL
You were curious what would happen.
You were curious what Mr. Dimmond
would do. What I would do.
(then)
Did you anticipate our thoughts?
Counter-thoughts? Rationalizations?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes.
HANNIBAL
(re: Dimmonds body)
Is this what you expected?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(a moment, then)
Yes.
HANNIBAL
Thats participation.
Hannibal crosses to Bedelias suitcase, picking it up.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Whatve you gotten yourself into,
Bedelia?
(off her silence)
Shall I hang up your coat?
Bedelia absently hands him her coat. Hannibal moves into the
bedroom. Through the open door we can see him place
Bedelias suitcase on the bed and begin to unpack it.
OFF Bedelia staring at Mr. Dimmonds body...
CLOSE ON A BEAUTIFUL VINTAGE LEATHER STEAMER TRUNK
CAMERA reveals TWO PORTERS carry the trunk toward...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 37.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - PLATFORM - DAY
Hannibal ENTERS FRAME behind the two porters and the trunk en
route to the awaiting TRAIN CAR. Dressed in an elegant travel
coat, he strikes a dashing figure as he boards the train.
INT. TRAIN CAR - DAY
Hannibal shares a private compartment with his steamer trunk.
As CAMERA PUSHES IN, Hannibals gaze drifts to the window as
a stunning Italian landscape blurs past...
SNAILS
They topple into a hot pan, a brandy flamb erupts around
them. As the fire starts to fade, a shower of white wine
douses the flame and we EXTINGUISH TO BLACK.
CAMERA PULLS OUT OF A LARGE AFRICAN SNAIL SHELL
The tiny snails from the cochlear garden are tumbling out
onto the dinner table, beautifully cooked. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTERS HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK to reveal Hannibal and Gideon
at the table, flanking the large snail shell. Surrounding
the mouth of the shell are various oysters in the half-shell.
HANNIBAL
Would you rather I extended you the
same kindness as the escargot?
DR. GIDEON
Eating me without my knowledge? I
find knowing to be much more
powerful than not knowing. Why do
you think I'm allowing this?
Hannibal studies his dinner companion, appreciating his bite.
HANNIBAL
Why do you think I'm allowing this?
DR. GIDEON
Snails aren't the only creatures
who prefer to eat in company.
Gideon forks a snail in its shell, which is secured
decoratively so he can use one arm, and pops it in his mouth.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
I'm fascinated to know how you will
feel when all this... happens to you.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 38.
EXT. PALERMO - NORMAN PALACE - DAWN
Time-lapse establishing.
INT. NORMAN CHAPEL - DAWN
Ornate, inspiring and severe.
Morning light glances down from the stained-glass windows,
casting colored pools and dense shadows.
CAMERA prowls the aisles between the rows of pews and finds A
GARGANTUAN HUMAN HEART -- not the organ itself, but a
representation, skillfully molded from the CORPSE OF ANTONY
DIMMOND.
The torso is tucked into a fetal position, hands and feet
have been cut off mid-forearm/mid-shin. The arms and legs
broken and bent to mimic the ventricles and aorta. Dimmonds
head has been removed.
The dark red blood streaking the body and the pallor of the
dead skin create the purplish hues of a recently-removed organ.
The heart is pierced by three swords pushed through the
body at angles, to both secure the organic sculpture in place
and provide a tripod to lift it from the ground.
It almost appears to be a horrifying brazier awaiting flame.
As the sun rises, the multicolored shafts of light beaming
through the stained-glass windows spotlight Hannibals
creation in all its glory...
OFF the tableau, placed amid the gorgeous light, in a
monument to God and mans adulation of him, we...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 39.
Antipasto
Written by
Bryan Fuller
&
Steve Lightfoot
Directed by
Vincenzo Natali
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #301 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2015 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot 
HANNIBAL
"Antipasto"
TEASER
BLACK
A PANNING LIGHT reveals a HUMAN FACE frozen in torment. Then
a HAND grasping for freedom. Our light now reveals the
TORSO, lean and stretched in agony.
WIDER -- our light casts across a vertical group of HUMAN
BODIES, and as we move over it, the bodies ANIMATE, writhing
in torment.
REVERSE WIDE -- to blackness, and our light is now a
PINPOINT. Slowly enlarging as it comes toward us. And a LOW
DRONE accompanies it, indistinct, but unsettling.
The circle of light grows, and MORPHS into an EYE,
unblinking, as our drone increases, and then our eye again
MORPHS, becoming the SPINNING FRONT WHEEL of a motorcycle.
CLOSE ON A GLOVED HAND as it works the throttle, and the
drone PITCHES HIGHER as the bike changes gear.
ON OUR TORTURED HUMAN FORMS as they writhe against one another
-- and then, IMAGE IS SPLIT by the motorcycle's front wheel as
it splashes through the PUDDLE in which they were reflected.
CLOSE ON WATER DROPLETS as they are launched into the air,
like bubbles, a tortured soul reflecting, trapped, in each as
they spin through the air and turn BLOOD RED.
CLOSE ON THE REFLECTIVE BLACK VISOR of our bike's RIDER --
Figures writhe within the margins of the glass.
REVERSE -- WIDE -- behind the motorbike, now DWARFED IN FRAME
as it rides toward an IMMENSE PAIR OF GATES -- Rodin's Gates
of Hell, the sculpted bodies, caught in torment, adorning
each side.
REVERSE AGAIN -- and now we are back on our rider's visor --
the gates fill the visor, and as the rider gets closer, we
watch in the reflection as the gates BEGIN TO OPEN --
And through the opening space we see PARIS OPENING UP BEYOND.
The bike speeds through the gates, sending the tortured
figures into a new frenzy, and then he is through and the
reflection is now the frenzy of a PARIS NIGHT STREET...
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
The motorcycle -- a TRIUMPH BONNEVILLE -- swerves and cuts
between two cars like a knife through butter.
The Bonneville dances between lanes as the rider throws his
weight from side to side.
We enjoy his progress; his skill and prowess as he owns the
road.
CLOSE ON the reflective visor of his helmet, the world beyond
zooming by, reflected in the black glass.
His gloved hands on the throttle; his foot as it kicks the
powerful bike through the gears.
The Bonneville BRAKES to a sudden halt. The rider gets off.
Dressed in Belstaff. He removes the helmet. For a brief
second, those bodies writhe across it again -- there, and then
gone -- and we see the rider now: it is HANNIBAL LECTER.
As we haven't seen him before. Looser, longer hair; a little
rougher; a man free of responsibilities.
INT. PARIS PARTY VENUE - NIGHT
PALE YELLOW LIQUID fizzes into a glass flute. A hand takes the
champagne and moves from a bar, and we go with it, revealing --
A PARTY CROWD -- under a banner: "Bon Voyage, Roman Fell."
It is a well-heeled leaving party for DR. ROMAN FELL, a tall,
lean man of 50, sporting a fine academic's beard. He holds
court in the center of the room. He loves the attention of a
crowd of young acolytes and well-wishers.
We move through the throng, toward him. As people part in front
of us, we REVERSE to reveal this is Hannibal Lecter's POV.
His eyes fixed on Roman Fell.
STAY ON Hannibal as he moves lithely through the crowd,
bodies between him and us, he is there and then gone -- like
a tiger moving through the long grass. His eyes never
leaving his prey. Appraising, calculating...
A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN crosses his path, makes eye contact.
Hannibal returns it. Raises his glass.
She smiles, but Hannibal inclines his head and passes on the
invitation to linger. Steps around her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 2.
ANTONY DIMMOND, 40s, tall, lean, somewhat louche-looking --
his clothes expensive, but old and worn -- darts suddenly at
a WAITRESS with a tray of champagne, snaffles two glasses.
He tosses one back quickly, then notices Hannibal noticing.
ANTONY DIMMOND
(re: his two glasses)
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
(then)
Antony Dimmond. I'd offer a hand,
but--
HANNIBAL
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Do you know Roman well?
Dimmond clocks Hannibal's eyes wandering back toward Dr. Fell
amid a circle of people.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
You were staring with the thinlyveiled disdain of a man who does.
I was his TA at Cambridge. He was
insufferable even then.
Dimmond finishes the second flute of champagne and puts it on a
passing tray. Grabs two more and hands Hannibal one of them.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Have you read his books? They're
terrible. You know they're
terrible, but you're too polite to
say. Blink if you agree.
(off his blink)
See.
Dimmond pulls a weathered paperback from his coat pocket.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
That doesn't stop him squatting
over a keyboard and depositing a
fresh one every six to eight
months. It has taken me six to
eight months to write one line.
HANNIBAL
Why?
Dimmond stares at Hannibal a moment, as if the answer is
abundantly clear, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 3.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Poetry is hard. Was too hard for
Roman. Easier for him to slide into
academia and dissect the efforts of
others than stand by his own words.
HANNIBAL
One can appreciate another's words
without dissecting them. Though,
on occasion, dissection is the only
thing that will do.
OFF Hannibal's glance in Dr. Fell's direction...
CUT TO:
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
Dr. Roman Fell walks home, merrily drunk, excited by the
prospect of his new adventure.
Behind him, our Bonneville idles slowly across the street.
As Hannibal is putting on his helmet:
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir.
Dr. Fell is reflected in the black maw of Hannibal's visor as
Hannibal slowly follows him, then passes him by. CAMERA
follows Dr. Fell as Hannibal's Bonneville speeds away.
EXT./INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
Dr. Fell enters his building and heads up the stairs. He
stops short when he sees Hannibal standing outside his door.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir?
CUT TO:
INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
BLOOD RED WINE SPLASHES up the sides of a glass.
Hands place an OPERA RECORD on a turntable. CLOSE ON the
needle as it drops.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 4.
BUTTER melts in a pan.
LIVER is tossed in with a sizzle... a dash of brandy is added
and flares into flame.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's knife and fork as it slices through the
liver on his plate.
A blush of blood STAINS the juices on the plate. He brings
it to his lips. Chews.
Delicious.
CUT TO:
PUSH IN OMINOUSLY
On the inside of the closed apartment door.
CLOSER and CLOSER till the handle turns and it opens toward
us -- and a stylishly-dressed woman enters.
MRS. FELL!
She hears the opera and smiles.
Moves toward the dining room.
She halts in the doorway.
CAMERA moves around her to register the cause of her confusion.
MRS. FELL'S POV
Hannibal Lecter sits at the table, linen and cutlery
immaculately placed. Savoring his food, a nice Bordeaux and
the music.
Hannibal smiles up at her.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 5.
ACT ONE
DARKNESS
A REFLECTIVE SHAPE moves toward CAMERA. It is --
A LARGE SILVER DOME.
It covers a sizeable serving platter that is moving through a
darkened room until, finally, the REFLECTION OF ABEL GIDEON
bows across its surface. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
ABEL GIDEON sits at the beautifully-appointed table; he has a
drip in one arm and a chest monitor. Under the table, we see
that Gideon is now missing both legs at the thigh. (NOTE:
This takes place between Eps. #206 and 207.)
The silver dome turns and Gideon watches his reflection SLIDE
DOWN the length of the platter. The platter is lifted from
the sidecar and placed in the middle of the dinner table.
The large silver dome rises off the platter as if by unseen
hands floating somewhere in the darkness. Underneath the
dome and further unveiled by a SILKY CLOUD OF SMOKE:
GIDEON'S LEG
From hip to ankle, beautifully roasted with SUGAR CANE QUILLS
sticking out of the flesh in a pleasing grid pattern. It's
mounted on a plank, like a long whole ham.
DR. GIDEON
You really are the Devil.
Certainly seem to enjoy it. You
have a click in your hoof.
FROM GIDEON'S POV -- HANNIBAL
He appears to MATERIALIZE out of the THINNING MIST rising off
the bed of smoking sprigs of thyme.
HANNIBAL
The Devil has been a yoke on the
neck of humanity since we first
began to think and dream.
(then)
I for a much shorter time.
Gideon takes a deep, appreciative breath.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 6.
DR. GIDEON
You admit the yoke.
(then)
Smells like candy apples. And
thyme. You smoked me in thyme.
HANNIBAL
Smoked. Glazed. Slow-cooked.
Served on a sugar cane quill. You
will be falling off the bone.
Hannibal plucks a sugar cane quill, pulling out a MEDALLION
OF MEAT from Gideon's severed leg, like a Popsicle stick, and
placing it on his guest's plate.
DR. GIDEON
Well, of course.
(then)
And with these rarified dishes you
so thoughtfully prepare...
(then)
...do we all taste different?
HANNIBAL
Everyone has their flavor.
Gideon's eyes narrow, not giving Hannibal the satisfaction of
seeing him impressed one way or another.
DR. GIDEON
Cannibalism was standard behavior
among our ancestors. Missing link
is only missing because we ate him.
HANNIBAL
This isn't cannibalism, Abel. It's
only cannibalism if we're equals.
DR. GIDEON
It's only cannibalism if you eat
me. But you feel this is just the
natural order of things? Everybody
gets et?
HANNIBAL
Be he fat or be he lean.
DR. GIDEON
My last leg standing across the
table from me, and I still wrestle
with the urges to fight or flee.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 7.
HANNIBAL
It's called "terminal restlessness."
The body fills with adrenaline and
feels compelled to go-go-go.
DR. GIDEON
"Go-go-go"? I've already got up
and gone. This is posthumous.
HANNIBAL
You're not dead yet, Abel. You
still have to eat.
DR. GIDEON
No, I don't.
Gideon takes a bite of the medallion of meat before him.
It's truly something special, but once again, he doesn't give
Hannibal the satisfaction. Hannibal smiles, regardless.
Gideon is about to take another bite, but pauses to glance
around the beautifully-appointed room and at his devilish host.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
At this point, there is absolutely
nothing I have to do. But I don't
want to spoil the fairy tale, do I?
You and your gingerbread house.
HANNIBAL
Let it be a fairy tale, then.
(then)
Once upon a time...
OFF Hannibal...
GRAND MUSIC begins to rise, taking us to --
INT. FLORENCE BALLROOM - NIGHT
A dazzlingly-dressed couple as they sweep ACROSS FRAME in a
stylish waltz.
It could be a scene from Cinderella's dreams... The glitter
of jewelry and champagne. The dash of black tie and
ballgowns; the dance floor filled with couples sweeping in
graceful patterns across it.
CAMERA moves through the dancing figures to find a
particularly-elegant couple and stays with them as they swoop
across the floor... They waltz around CAMERA, faces hidden
from us as they move in perfect union, until the music comes
to an end and the man dips his partner low to the ground --
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 8.
Revealing Hannibal and a stunning BEDELIA DU MAURIER... a
prince and his princess. He smiles down at her, both
somewhat breathless.
A beat, and then he pulls her back to him.
HANNIBAL
Bellissima.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
Hannibal snags them both champagne off a passing tray.
SOGLIATO (O.S.)
Dr. Fell, I hope you translate as
well as you waltz.
SOGLIATO is a smooth, oily Italian, late 30s. Impeccably
dressed. An academic who wears his ego like armor. Sogliato
kisses Bedelia's hand and then shakes Hannibal's. He stands
with SIGNOR and SIGNORA ALBIZZI -- president of the museum's
governing board.
SIGNOR ALBIZZI
Our new appointee was confirmed by
the board after close questioning.
SOGLIATO
You've examined him in medieval
Italian, and I will not deny his
language is admirable.
Bedelia watches this exchange. Intrigued. Aware others in
the crowd are observing. As is Sogliato...
HANNIBAL
Thank you.
SOGLIATO
For a straniero.
Sogliato smiles at the audience now ear-wigging shamelessly.
Bedelia is watching Hannibal, the way his eyes go dead for a
second at the insult before he smiles.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Are you familiar with the
personalities of pre-Renaissance
Florence? I think not. (a smile for Bedelia)
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 9.
(MORE)
Dr. Fell might hold in his hand --
in his non-Italian hand -- a note
from Dante Alighieri himself. Would
he recognize it? I think not.
Bedelia intercedes:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato, would you do me
the honor of a dance?
Bedelia offers her arm. Keen to lead him away. Hannibal
noting her intention. As they turn away:
HANNIBAL "Allegro mi sembrava Amor tenendo /
meo core in mano, e ne le braccia
avea / madonna involta in un drappo
dormendo. / Poi la svegliava, e
d'esto core ardendo / lei paventosa
umilmente pascea; / appreso gir lo
ne vedea piangendo."
Some of those listening applaud loudly at this stirring
recital. Sogliato hates it. Bedelia smiles at Hannibal.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dante's first sonnet. It
fascinated Cavalcanti. The eating
of the heart is a powerful image.
Hannibal doesn't have to be smug; Signor Albizzi is smug for
him. Off that smugness:
SOGLIATO
If he's such an expert on Dante,
let him lecture on Dante, to the
Studiolo. Let him face them.
(then)
Extempore.
The reaction of the crowd says this is a strong challenge.
Hannibal merely inclines his head.
HANNIBAL
I'm happy to sing for my supper.
He holds Sogliato's gaze. Battle met.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato.
Bedelia looks to Sogliato who takes her hand to dance.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 10.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Hannibal smiles at Bedelia who doesn't return his smile.
EXT. FLORENCE - NIGHT
CAMERA moves across the city as the evening gathers and the
streets empty, the fan pattern of the cobbles shining in a
drizzle. CAMERA finds A SILHOUETTED MAN on a balcony.
CLOSE ON HANNIBAL
As we watch, his face becomes washed with amber, as if under
liquid, flowing and indistinct.
We are now --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
STAY ON this Hannibal in amber, framed within the proscenium
arch of his balcony, looking out over Florence...
HANNIBAL
We are among the palaces built six
hundred years ago by the merchant
princes, the kingmakers and
connivers of Renaissance Florence.
...until Bedelia reaches for the glass of brandy he is
offering her and breaks the illusion.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
As connivers of modern Florence.
Hannibal looks out over the city, considering its romance.
HANNIBAL
I've found a peace here that I
would preserve. I've killed hardly
anybody during our residence.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You created the vacancy at the
Palazzo Capponi by removing the
former curator.
HANNIBAL
A simple process requiring a few
seconds' work on the old man and a
modest outlay for two bags of cement.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You no longer have ethical
problems, Hannibal. You have
aesthetical ones.
(re: her zipper)
Could you?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 11.
She turns and Hannibal stands behind her and slowly unzips
her dress, revealing her bare back.
HANNIBAL
Ethics become aesthetics.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You seem more concerned with making
appearances than maintaining them.
HANNIBAL
If this is about my position at the
Palazzo, once the path was cleared,
I won the job fairly. On my merits.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes, even the most-contentious
Florentines can't resist the verse
of Dante ringing off frescoed walls.
HANNIBAL
One contentious Florentine can.
Bedelia crosses into:
INT. HANNIBAL'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY/BEDELIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
A large, freestanding CAST-IRON BATH in there. Bedelia
enters and turns the ornate taps. Water thunders out. She
turns to see Hannibal in the doorway.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Have you given serious thought to
eating Professor Sogliato?
HANNIBAL
My killing Sogliato now would not
preserve the peace.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Your peace is without morality.
HANNIBAL
Morality doesn't exist. Only morale.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How you feel today.
HANNIBAL
How do you feel today?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I still believe I'm in conscious
control of my actions. Given your
history, that's a good day.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 12.
OFF Bedelia's soft, polite smile...
CLOSE ON A RUSHING TAP
It is turned off and the steaming torrent becomes a DRIP. The
drip sends RINGS spreading to the deep sides of the bathtub.
Bedelia lies back and IMMERSES herself under the water. The
surface six inches from her mouth. Like Ophelia lying under
the surface of the lake... HOLDING HER BREATH -- A SINGLE
BUBBLE escapes her lips and slowly pops on the surface. She
stares upward. Slowly, her eyes close.
Around her, the water DARKENS TO BLACK, as if the bottom of
the bath has fallen away to reveal an ENDLESS DEPTH. And now
Bedelia is SLOWLY SINKING, horizontally sliding downward into
the Stygian dark...
BEDELIA'S POV -- amid the darkness, GNARLED ROOTS clamber
around one another, slick and wet amid the water...
LOWER and LOWER she sinks, beyond this level, into the next.
Until finally she comes to the BOTTOM and her body comes to
rest in a black silt that RISES AROUND HER in SWIRLS and
WISPS, as if welcoming her into its grasp.
ON BEDELIA'S CLOSED EYES
Another SOLITARY BUBBLE rises from her lips, and we RISE AWAY
from her to follow its progress.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
An area of ARTISAN FOOD STORES -- the streets thronged with
shoppers. CAMERA finds Bedelia among them, moving through
the crowd, a distant focus in her eyes.
CLOSE ON BEDELIA
A POLICE CONSTABLE comes down the street toward her. He
smiles, tips his hat to the beautiful lady. She nods, her
smile fading the moment he passes.
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
An elegant Florentine fine grocer filled with fine wines and
exotic cheeses. Bedelia approaches the CLERK at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
CUT TO:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 13.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
Bedelia sits on a bench, her shopping bag from Vera dal 1926
next to her. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal...
...she sits on the platform of a train station.
A CCTV camera sits above her, covering the length of the
platform. Bedelia looks up at it and then back to the TRAIN
which is about to depart. Its open carriage doors are an
invitation... Will she take it?
OFF Bedelia...
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 14.
ACT TWO
EXT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PUSHES IN as headlights roll up the driveway and
across the siding of the house as a car approaches.
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - FOYER/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA moves through the darkened hall until FRAMING AN
EXTREME CLOSE-UP ON THE FRONT DOORKNOB.
The SOUND OF A KEY in the door --
Breaks the quiet. LIGHT SPILLS in as the door opens.
Bedelia enters.
She turns to the living room as CAMERA reveals almost every
piece of her furniture is beneath a drop cloth, protected
against dust for an indefinite period of time -- just as she
left it before she fled Hannibal and the FBI.
(NOTE: Bedelia has just come from the FBIs interrogation
room, as seen in Ep. #212, Tome-wan.)
Bedelia takes in the shroud of the chairs, walking the rooms
periphery, searching for some sense of herself. She pauses.
AN EMPTY CHAIR
Where she left a glass-cut perfume bottle for Hannibal weeks
earlier. Its gone. She considers its absence, then:
CLOSE ON THE SPIKE OF A CORKSCREW
It TWISTS through the cork in a bottle of wine. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia opens the bottle of wine and pours herself a glass.
She reacts, twists the bottle upward to stem the flow. One
last drop of wine falls into the glass and she listens.
CAMERA FOLLOWS BEDELIA
She moves into the hall as a distinct sound grows louder and
louder until she recognizes it. The shower is running.
INT. BEDELIA'S HOUSE - BEDROOM/BATHROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
She moves into her bedroom, toward the open door of her
bathroom through which she can see bloody clothes strewn
across the floor and a MAN IN HER SHOWER.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 15.
HANNIBAL
He stands naked in Bedelias shower, blood thinly streaming
from his various cuts and wounds as water washes them clean.
He twists the pressure valve closed until the water only drips.
Hannibal steps out of the shower, allowing the water to bead
off of him, before grabbing a towel to dry himself.
There is a familiar CLICK of a gun cocking and Hannibal
realizes he is no longer alone.
HANNIBALS POV -- THE SHADOWS
He slowly pushes the bathroom door open, casting light into
the bedroom and finally illuminating Bedelia sitting calmly,
holding a gun in one hand and a glass of wine in the other.
BEDELIAS POV -- HANNIBAL
He stands naked, silhouetted in the doorway.
HANNIBAL
May I get dressed?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You may.
Hannibal lets his towel drop and pulls on his underwear.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER (CONTD)
What have you done, Hannibal?
HANNIBAL
Ive taken off my person suit.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You let them see you.
HANNIBAL
I let them see enough.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How does that feel? Being seen?
Hannibal shrugs on his shirt and buttons it.
HANNIBAL
Youre not in a position to ask,
Dr. Du Maurier. You ended our
patient-psychiatrist relationship.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 16.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I lacked the appropriate skills to
continue your treatment.
HANNIBAL
I never found you to be lacking.
She studies him a moment, then:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im sorry I didnt leave you with a
suitable substitute for therapy.
(then)
Is Will Graham still alive?
Hannibal goes still. A quiet moment as he curbs his emotions.
HANNIBAL
Will Graham was not a suitable
substitute for therapy.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What was he?
HANNIBAL
Is this professional curiosity?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Almost entirely.
HANNIBAL
Do you trust me?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not entirely.
(then)
Trust is driven by an emotional
sense of what to do, and a very
conscious sense what not to do.
HANNIBAL
Are you taking into account my
beliefs about your intentions?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My intentions?
HANNIBAL
Human motivation can be little more
than lucid greed.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Greed and blind optimism.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 17.
HANNIBAL
Youre optimistic I wont kill you.
OFF Bedelia as she smoothly un-cocks the gun in her hand,
sets it aside and takes a sip of wine.
PRE-LAP A SUDDEN SQUEALING --
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
The hurly-burly of the Paris train about to depart. Lastminute PASSENGERS jumping aboard.
CONDUCTORS make their last calls.
Train doors SLAM.
The SIGNAL LIGHTS change.
The Paris train pulls out of the station slowly, revealing
Bedelia still sitting on her bench, watching it go...
CCTV -- looking down on Bedelia as she looks up at the
camera... looking anything but optimistic.
MUSIC RISES over her, taking us to --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - DAY
A darkened room. The music plays as Hannibal works on his
speech to the Studiolo, rapt and transported.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's face and hands, light flickering over
them as he works with slides and a projector.
Hannibal studies paintings and poems, writing notes, struck
by their power. Absorbed in a world of beauty and intellect.
Happy.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - CORRIDOR - DAY
ON HANNIBAL
Smiling, happy with life, as he walks down a vaulted
corridor, light and shadow alternating on his face as he
passes the windows...
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY/FOYER - DAY
He comes down a wide flight of stone stairs and into the foyer.
Bright sunlight shines in from the outside.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 18.
Hannibal walks toward it, the LENS FLARING as he becomes a
silhouette, his face going to darkness as the bright sunlight
of the doorframe envelopes him.
MATCH CUT TO:
EXT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - DAY
As Hannibal emerges onto the steps and looks across the busy
square.
ANTONY DIMMOND (O.S.)
Hello! Bonjour!
Hannibal does not realize this is directed at him, but as he
heads down the stairs, a hand grabs his arm.
ON HANNIBAL -- for a second his eyes threaten violence -- but
then he turns to see:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sporting stubble and wild hair. He seems absentminded, but
his eyes are sharp.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
We met in Paris a few months back.
Sorry, didn't mean to startle you,
but here I was and then, there you
were... I never forget a face...
HANNIBAL
Antony Dimmond.
Dimmond beams with pleasure.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Nice to be remembered.
HANNIBAL
You're hard to forget.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What are you doing in Florence?
Are you working with Roman?
HANNIBAL
Dr. Fell?
ANTONY DIMMOND
I heard he took an appointment at
the Capponi library.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 19.
ON HANNIBAL -- Dimmond is astute beneath his manner. Doesn't
miss much, it seems.
HANNIBAL
Yes, he's the new curator and
translator of the Palazzo Capponi.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Evidently, the last one eloped with
a woman or someone's money or both.
Hannibal is cool.
HANNIBAL
That's the commonly-held belief.
(then)
You just missed Roman.
Dimmond looks crestfallen.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Did I? Was hoping to take the piss.
Hannibal studies Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
Spare the piss for the time being.
If you're free, my wife and I would
love to have you for dinner.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 20.
ACT THREE
CLOSE ON A SNAIL
It moves at a snail's pace across a slick, fleshy surface.
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal it is one snail among dozens.
We are --
INT. COCHLEAR GARDEN - DARK (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK until it reveals a plump snail
feasting on the tip of a human finger.
The snails are crawling across the flesh of an arm resting in
a pool of wine marinade, also consumed by dozens of snails.
Fingers of the living reach INTO FRAME and pluck the plump
snail from the fingers of the marinating severed arm.
CLOSE ON A PLUMP SNAIL
CAMERA RACK FOCUSES onto Hannibal studying the snail as it
crawls across his fingers. He's dressed in a three-piece
plaid suit and an apron, harvesting his cochlear garden.
HANNIBAL
Listen.
He holds his breath for a moment and we hear dozens of little
RASP-LIKE TONGUES CHEWING on Gideon's severed arm.
Reveal Gideon.
He is listening, but not as impressed as Hannibal -- as it is
his flesh the snails are chewing. He sits on a motorized
wheelchair. His left arm is missing below the shoulder. The
fresh amputation wound is tightly dressed.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
They prefer eating in company.
Hannibal plucks snails from their moist roosts, collecting
them in an elegant glass cylinder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
I've kept cochlear gardens since I
was a young man, fattening snails on
herbs and vine leaves. Like all of
us, what they eat greatly influences
and enhances their flavor.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 21.
DR. GIDEON
When I'm not eating myself, you
wish me to be eating oysters.
Drinking sweet wines, snacking on
acorns. All to make me tastier?
HANNIBAL
Oh yes.
(re: the snails)
And you are making them tastier.
DR. GIDEON
And I you. Imagine what you must
taste like. Won't be long before
someone takes a bite out of you.
Hannibal notes Gideon's tone.
HANNIBAL
When agitated, sea snails produce a
purple dye. Its color won't fade.
Becomes brighter with weathering.
(then)
You're becoming brighter, Abel.
Dying hasn't dulled you one bit.
Gideon politely turns his attention back to the snails:
DR. GIDEON
The snails are certainly having a
lovely experience, fattened on me
in a red-wine marinade. They have
no idea they're going to be eaten.
(then)
We do.
CLOSE ON AN OYSTER SHELL
CAMERA crawls across its surface. A SHUCKING BLADE ENTERS
FRAME and splits the shell, at its hinge, with a twist,
removing the lid and revealing the oyster.
The oyster in its cup is placed on a bed of ice, SPINNING to
reveal it is joining a dozen oysters fanned across a platter.
A woman's hand ENTERS FRAME and takes an oyster.
CAMERA follows the oyster to reveal Bedelia. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Bedelia sits with Hannibal and Antony Dimmond at the table.
She is hiding her fears well, surrounded by a tray of oysters
and nuts. Hannibal at ease, a platter of meats between him and
Dimmond, who enjoys the hospitality, pours himself more wine.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 22.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(to Dimmond)
How well do you know the Fells?
She shoots the oyster in her imperceptibly-trembling hand.
ANTONY DIMMOND
As well as anybody. Which'd be not
really. Lydia a friend of yours?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not really.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I'd be surprised to hear she had
one. We share a mutual detestation.
She disapproves of my disapproval.
HANNIBAL
What do you disapprove of?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Roman, mainly. Lydia isn't quite
bright enough to see I'm just
intimidated. Roman does, of course.
How he loves to strike fear.
HANNIBAL
Dante wrote that fear is almost as
bitter as death.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Dante wasn't dead when he wrote it.
HANNIBAL
Are you traveling alone, Antony?
The question sends a shudder down Bedelia's spine.
ANTONY DIMMOND
It's the only way I travel.
HANNIBAL
Roman is speaking to the Studiolo
Friday. On Dante. You should come.
If Bedelia had been chewing, she would have choked.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sounds appropriately hellish.
Dimmond clocks Bedelia as she reaches for another oyster.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 23.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Are you avoiding meats?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I'm trying not to eat anything with
a central nervous system.
Dimmond calls out the food in her corner of the table:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Oysters, acorns and Marsala. That's
what ancient Romans would feed
animals to improve their flavor.
Bedelia does her best to hide her realization, steadies
herself. Hannibal watches her very closely as she digests.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My husband has quite a
sophisticated palette. He's
particular about how I taste.
Bedelia shoots another oyster back. Hannibal stares. An
uncomfortably-long beat as Dimmond considers that. Finally:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Is it that kind of party?
HANNIBAL
It is not that kind of party.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No, it really isn't.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Shame. You were both suddenly so
fascinating.
HARD CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Dimmond stands in the open doorway, shrugging on his coat as
Hannibal and Bedelia see him out.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Buonasera.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Buonasera.
HANNIBAL
Buonasera.
Hannibal closes the door as Dimmond walks away.
A moment, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 24.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(curious)
You let him go.
HANNIBAL
What would you have me do, Bedelia?
As Bedelia ponders Hannibal's question...
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
Bedelia walks down the street.
CAMERA follows her from across the street, keeping pace.
ANGLE ON ANTONY DIMMOND
Also walking the streets. Moving through the crowds,
following Bedelia.
INTERCUT their progress.
Bedelia moves with purpose. Resolved. Anxious.
Dimmond moves with greater freedom, not a care in the world.
Is he stalking her?
Bedelia crosses the street, narrowly avoiding a car that
screeches to a halt before it would have run her down.
Dimmond turns to the sound to see Bedelia disappearing into:
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
Navigating her way through the pastas and hams, Bedelia
approaches the clerk at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
As the clerk prepares the order, Antony strides across the
grocery store, directly toward Bedelia.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Florentines say Vera dal, with its
wealth of cheeses and truffles,
smells like the feet of God.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Hello, Mr. Dimmond.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 25.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I don't know if it's you, me or God,
but there's something in the air.
The clerk hands Bedelia her bag.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Dinner was lovely. I must confess
to a certain abstract curiosity
about your husband... Mrs. Fell.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(stares, then)
Good-bye, Mr. Dimmond.
Bedelia takes the bag and exits. Dimmond follows.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
CAMERA leads Bedelia out of Vera dal 1926 as Dimmond stands
in the doorway behind her, watching her go a moment, then:
ANTONY DIMMOND
I asked one of the scholars at the
Palazzo to point me in the
direction of Dr. Fell. He raised
one craggy old finger and pointed
it directly at your husband. I
thought the old codger made a
mistake, but there was no mistake.
Bedelia keeps walking. Dimmond quickens his pace to catch up.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Even in the teeth of evidence,
you're just going to walk away.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Those aren't the teeth you should
be concerned about.
Bedelia tries to control the tremble building inside her.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Where are Roman and Lydia?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I don't know.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Does your husband know?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 26.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He's not my husband. He is
something entirely Other.
ANTONY DIMMOND
The man is curating an exposition
of Atrocious Torture Instruments.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
The essence of the worst of the
human spirit is not found in the
iron maiden or the whetted edge.
Elemental ugliness, Mr. Dimmond, is
found in the faces of the crowd.
(then)
However you think you're going to
manipulate this situation to your
advantage, think again.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Bluebeard's wife. Secrets you're
not to know, yet sworn to keep.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
If I'm to be Bluebeard's wife, I
would prefer to be the last one.
(then)
Unless you believe you are beyond
harm, go to the police.
ANTONY DIMMOND
You want to be caught.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 27.
ACT FOUR
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PULLS BACK to find her lying flat on her back, covered
in blood. Shes breathing heavy, trembling.
There is a faint gurgling, choking sound that slowly begins to
register on her conscious mind through the sharp HUM of her
ringing ears and THUMPING of her circulatory system. She turns
and CAMERA reveals, lying on the floor next to her, is...
A DYING MAN
Hes dazed, choking on the blood overflowing from his mouth,
eyes rolling back until only the whites are visible.
He stiffens. After a long, horrible moment, he dies.
Bedelia stares, her jagged breath rattles in her ears, heart
racing. She sits up, unable to take her eyes off the dead
man lying next to her.
She raises a hand to brush the matted hair from her face, and
stops. Her hand looks like it has been dunked in a bucket of
blood up to her mid-forearm.
QUICK CUT TO:
MERE MOMENTS EARLIER
Bedelia straddles her PATIENT, holding him by the collar of
his shirt with one hand, the other hand is jammed down his
throat up to the mid-forearm. His eyes bulge.
BACK TO:
BEDELIA
She rises INTO FRAME, standing over her dead patient, and
CAMERA reveals Hannibal standing in the hallway behind her.
HANNIBAL
Bedelia.
Bedelia barely startles, turning to see Hannibal behind her.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He attacked me.
HANNIBAL
Is that your blood?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 28.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No.
Hannibal crouches next to the dead patient and examines his
hands -- theyre clean, free of blood or tissue.
HANNIBAL
You were... defending yourself?
A slow, guilty nod.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was reckless. Reckless violence
is a poor survival mechanism.
HANNIBAL
This wasnt reckless violence. It
was a controlled use of force.
Bedelia is haunted by the truth, tries to reassure herself:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not confused. My imagination
isnt filling in the gaps. I know
what happened here.
HANNIBAL
Do you?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He was your patient before he was
mine, Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
He died under your care.
(then)
Aggression can be an effective
means of maintaining order when
dealing with an unruly patient.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not an aggressive person.
HANNIBAL
Im sure you reacted with a level
of aggression that was uniquely
appropriate for this encounter.
(then)
But you werent defending yourself.
Hannibal stares, seeing right through her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 29.
A SERIES OF CLOSE SHOTS ON -- BEDELIA:
She unbuttons her bloody blouse, slipping it off her
shoulders and peeling it down her abdomen, exposing her
bloodstained undergarments. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - BATHROOM/BEDROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia is silhouetted in the doorway, much like Hannibal
was. CAMERA reveals Hannibal watching her from the shadows
of the bedroom, much like Bedelia was watching Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
I can help you tell the version of
events you want to be told. I can
help you, if you ask me to.
She opens the shower door and turns the nozzle. The
showerhead sprinkles and surges to life.
Bedelia raises her bloodstained hand to the shower stream,
allowing the red to wash away in rivulets down her arm.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
As Hannibals helpful grin starts to dawn...
ON BEDELIA
She stands under the shower, the water washes over her.
STREAMS OF WATER from the showerhead slow until they become
BEADS SUSPENDED IN MIDAIR above Bedelias upturned face.
MATCH CUT TO:
SCATTERED MOTES OF DUST
They float through the SLANT OF LIGHT cutting through the
darkness over Bedelias upturned face. We are now --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT (PRESENT)
Bedelia is beautifully coiffed and elegantly dressed. She
sits among the dragons of the Studiolo, dozens of the mostrenowned medieval and Renaissance scholars in the world.
They sit in rows of folding chairs, surrounded by DOZENS OF
TORTURE INSTRUMENTS, all in various states of restoration.
Hannibals voice creeps into Bedelias consciousness:
HANNIBAL (O.S.)
In accord with my own taste for the
pre-Renaissance...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 30.
The SLANT OF LIGHT over her head projects an IMAGE on a large
drop cloth suspended from the ceiling like a screen.
AN ILLUSTRATION OF SATAN
His three faces, half-immersed in ice, chewing on Brutus,
Cassius and Judas Iscariot, while weeping. Hannibal is a
dark figure pacing the aisles as he speaks:
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
...I present the case of Pietro
della Vigna, whose treachery earned
him a place in Dantes Hell.
ON HANNIBAL
He steps into the light, in front of the illustration of
Satan, its horns peeking out from behind his head.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
He was disgraced and blinded for
betraying his emperors trust.
He presses the switch in his palm and the illustration behind
him is now depicting Dante's nine levels of Hell.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dantes pilgrim finds him in the
seventh level of the Inferno,
reserved for suicides. Like Judas
Iscariot, he died by hanging.
Hannibal paces the aisle, slowly approaching Bedelia.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Judas and Pietro della Vigna are
linked in Dantes Inferno.
Hannibal places a gentle hand on Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal and hanging, then, linked
since antiquity, the image
appearing again and again in art.
An ART SLIDE appears on the drop cloth. Hannibal begins
pacing again, taking his hand off Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
This is the earliest-known
depiction of the Crucifixion,
carved on an ivory box in Gaul
about A.D. four hundred.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 31.
(MORE)
It includes the death by hanging of
Judas, his face upturned to the
branch that suspends him.
NEW ANGLE
A NEW SLIDE appears as CAMERA reveals Antony Dimmond quietly
listening to Hannibals lecture from the back of the room.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
On the doors of the Benevento
Cathedral, we see Judas hanging
with his bowels falling out.
Hannibal squeezes the remote and ANOTHER SLIDE appears.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
And here, from a fifteenth-century
edition of The Inferno, is Pietro
della Vignas body hanging from a
bleeding tree. I wont belabor the
parallels with Judas Iscariot.
ON BEDELIA
Her eyes wander until they find Mr. Dimmond listening
intently. Her face goes slack.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal, hanging, self-destruction.
Hannibal addresses Bedelia almost directly without singling
her out in the audience, all with a glance.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
"Io fei gibetto a me de le mie case."
(translating)
I make my own home be my gallows.
Bedelia averts her eyes just as Hannibal notices Dimmond.
His composure only falters for a brief moment.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Mr. Dimmond. Welcome. Please join
us. We were just about to discuss
the matter of chewing in Dante.
Dimmond smiles politely, then takes a seat. Hannibal glances
at Bedelia, but her chair is now vacant.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 32.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia hurries away from Hannibals presentation as APPLAUSE
erupts from the Studiolo.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT
The dry-yet-enthusiastic applause trickles to a stop as
Hannibal nods his thanks to the Studiolo as they stand and
filter out of the hall.
HANNIBAL
Thank you for your kind attention.
Sogliato is gathering his belongings as Hannibal approaches.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Would you say I secured my
position, Professor Sogliato?
SOGLIATO
The Studiolo seems satisfied.
Dimmond waltzes up, joining Hannibal and Sogliato.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Satisfied? That applause was
downright enthusiastic in its soft
and dusty way.
SOGLIATO
Dottor Fell is a friend of yours?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Ive only known him a short time.
Still, the tales I could tell.
SOGLIATO
Please do.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What kind of friend would I be?
SOGLIATO
What kind of friend, indeed.
(to Hannibal)
Dottore.
Without another word, Sogliato moves off, suppressing an eye
roll, joining the Studiolo as they exit. Dimmond eyes the
various torture instruments surrounding them:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 33.
ANTONY DIMMOND
An exposition of Atrocious Torture
Instruments appeals to connoisseurs
of the very worst in mankind.
HANNIBAL
Now that ceaseless exposure has
calloused us to the lewd and the
vulgar, it is instructive to see
what still seems wicked to us.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What still slaps the clammy flab of
our submissive consciousness hard
enough to get our attention?
HANNIBAL
What wickedness has your attention,
Mr. Dimmond?
Hannibal and Dimmond circle a BREAKING WHEEL as they assess
each others intentions.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Yours, Dr. Fell. I have no
delusions of morality; if I had, I
wouldve gone to la polizia. (then)
Im curious what fate befell Dr.
Fell to see you here in his stead.
Hannibal studies Mr. Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
You may have to strap me to the
breaking wheel to loosen my tongue.
ANTONY DIMMOND
No torture was required to loosen
your wife/not-your-wifes tongue.
(off Hannibal's look)
She overestimated my affection for
the genuine Dr. Fell. Clearly, you
found him as distasteful as I did.
HANNIBAL
On the contrary.
ANTONY DIMMOND
We can twist ourselves into all
manner of uncomfortable positions
just to maintain appearances, with
or without a breaking wheel.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 34.
HANNIBAL
Are you here to twist me into an
uncomfortable position?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Im here to help you untwist... to
our mutual benefit.
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia has donned a coat and is carrying a small suitcase,
hurrying toward the door. She reaches for the doorknob and
stops short. Its starting to turn...
The door opens and Hannibal ushers Antony Dimmond inside. He
averts his eyes away from Bedelias gaze.
POV FROM THE HALL
As Hannibal slowly shuts the door on anyones escape.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 35.
ACT FIVE
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER -- SLOW MOTION
VIOLENT SHADOWS dance across her face. We are in the fog of
Bedelias experience, her hearing numbed by the wash of her
circulatory system and a HIGH-PITCHED RINGING intermittently
broken by STACCATO BURSTS of a terrified heart.
CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BACK
The violent shadows continue their SLOW DANCE across Bedelia
and the wall behind her as Hannibal brutally and efficiently
dispatches Antony Dimmond to the afterlife. Her suitcase is
next to her, her coat draped over her chair. We are --
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - NIGHT
Bedelia is unflinching despite jagged breaths rattling at the
back of her throat. Hannibal stands over Dimmonds corpse.
HANNIBAL
Observe or participate.
The words dont immediately land with Bedelia, still stunned
at what she has witnessed. She slowly looks at Hannibal:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What?
HANNIBAL
Are you, in this very moment,
observing or participating?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Observing.
The corners of Hannibals lips curl ever so slightly.
HANNIBAL
If you can see me, I can see you.
Hannibal leans over Dimmonds broken corpse in a FRAME
reminiscent of him leaning over Bedelias dead patient.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
You say youre observing, but this,
this is participation, Bedelia.
(off her look)
Did you know what he would do when
you asked him to help you? Id
prefer you answer honestly.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 36.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
This always goes better if one of
us is honest.
HANNIBAL
Have you been honest with yourself?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was curious.
HANNIBAL
You were curious what would happen.
You were curious what Mr. Dimmond
would do. What I would do.
(then)
Did you anticipate our thoughts?
Counter-thoughts? Rationalizations?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes.
HANNIBAL
(re: Dimmonds body)
Is this what you expected?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(a moment, then)
Yes.
HANNIBAL
Thats participation.
Hannibal crosses to Bedelias suitcase, picking it up.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Whatve you gotten yourself into,
Bedelia?
(off her silence)
Shall I hang up your coat?
Bedelia absently hands him her coat. Hannibal moves into the
bedroom. Through the open door we can see him place
Bedelias suitcase on the bed and begin to unpack it.
OFF Bedelia staring at Mr. Dimmonds body...
CLOSE ON A BEAUTIFUL VINTAGE LEATHER STEAMER TRUNK
CAMERA reveals TWO PORTERS carry the trunk toward...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 37.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - PLATFORM - DAY
Hannibal ENTERS FRAME behind the two porters and the trunk en
route to the awaiting TRAIN CAR. Dressed in an elegant travel
coat, he strikes a dashing figure as he boards the train.
INT. TRAIN CAR - DAY
Hannibal shares a private compartment with his steamer trunk.
As CAMERA PUSHES IN, Hannibals gaze drifts to the window as
a stunning Italian landscape blurs past...
SNAILS
They topple into a hot pan, a brandy flamb erupts around
them. As the fire starts to fade, a shower of white wine
douses the flame and we EXTINGUISH TO BLACK.
CAMERA PULLS OUT OF A LARGE AFRICAN SNAIL SHELL
The tiny snails from the cochlear garden are tumbling out
onto the dinner table, beautifully cooked. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTERS HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK to reveal Hannibal and Gideon
at the table, flanking the large snail shell. Surrounding
the mouth of the shell are various oysters in the half-shell.
HANNIBAL
Would you rather I extended you the
same kindness as the escargot?
DR. GIDEON
Eating me without my knowledge? I
find knowing to be much more
powerful than not knowing. Why do
you think I'm allowing this?
Hannibal studies his dinner companion, appreciating his bite.
HANNIBAL
Why do you think I'm allowing this?
DR. GIDEON
Snails aren't the only creatures
who prefer to eat in company.
Gideon forks a snail in its shell, which is secured
decoratively so he can use one arm, and pops it in his mouth.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
I'm fascinated to know how you will
feel when all this... happens to you.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 38.
EXT. PALERMO - NORMAN PALACE - DAWN
Time-lapse establishing.
INT. NORMAN CHAPEL - DAWN
Ornate, inspiring and severe.
Morning light glances down from the stained-glass windows,
casting colored pools and dense shadows.
CAMERA prowls the aisles between the rows of pews and finds A
GARGANTUAN HUMAN HEART -- not the organ itself, but a
representation, skillfully molded from the CORPSE OF ANTONY
DIMMOND.
The torso is tucked into a fetal position, hands and feet
have been cut off mid-forearm/mid-shin. The arms and legs
broken and bent to mimic the ventricles and aorta. Dimmonds
head has been removed.
The dark red blood streaking the body and the pallor of the
dead skin create the purplish hues of a recently-removed organ.
The heart is pierced by three swords pushed through the
body at angles, to both secure the organic sculpture in place
and provide a tripod to lift it from the ground.
It almost appears to be a horrifying brazier awaiting flame.
As the sun rises, the multicolored shafts of light beaming
through the stained-glass windows spotlight Hannibals
creation in all its glory...
OFF the tableau, placed amid the gorgeous light, in a
monument to God and mans adulation of him, we...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 39.
Antipasto
Written by
Bryan Fuller
&
Steve Lightfoot
Directed by
Vincenzo Natali
Based on the characters created by
Thomas Harris
Episode #301 Final Shooting Script
PROPERTY OF:
GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC
2015 CHISWICK PRODUCTIONS LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NO PORTIONS OF THIS SCRIPT MAY BE
PERFORMED, OR REPRODUCED BY ANY MEANS, OR QUOTED, OR PUBLISHED IN ANY MEDIUM WITHOUT THE PRIOR
WRITTEN CONSENT OF GAUMONT INTERNATIONAL TELEVISION LLC.
Executive Producer: Bryan Fuller
Executive Producer: Martha De Laurentiis
Executive Producer: Steve Lightfoot 
HANNIBAL
"Antipasto"
TEASER
BLACK
A PANNING LIGHT reveals a HUMAN FACE frozen in torment. Then
a HAND grasping for freedom. Our light now reveals the
TORSO, lean and stretched in agony.
WIDER -- our light casts across a vertical group of HUMAN
BODIES, and as we move over it, the bodies ANIMATE, writhing
in torment.
REVERSE WIDE -- to blackness, and our light is now a
PINPOINT. Slowly enlarging as it comes toward us. And a LOW
DRONE accompanies it, indistinct, but unsettling.
The circle of light grows, and MORPHS into an EYE,
unblinking, as our drone increases, and then our eye again
MORPHS, becoming the SPINNING FRONT WHEEL of a motorcycle.
CLOSE ON A GLOVED HAND as it works the throttle, and the
drone PITCHES HIGHER as the bike changes gear.
ON OUR TORTURED HUMAN FORMS as they writhe against one another
-- and then, IMAGE IS SPLIT by the motorcycle's front wheel as
it splashes through the PUDDLE in which they were reflected.
CLOSE ON WATER DROPLETS as they are launched into the air,
like bubbles, a tortured soul reflecting, trapped, in each as
they spin through the air and turn BLOOD RED.
CLOSE ON THE REFLECTIVE BLACK VISOR of our bike's RIDER --
Figures writhe within the margins of the glass.
REVERSE -- WIDE -- behind the motorbike, now DWARFED IN FRAME
as it rides toward an IMMENSE PAIR OF GATES -- Rodin's Gates
of Hell, the sculpted bodies, caught in torment, adorning
each side.
REVERSE AGAIN -- and now we are back on our rider's visor --
the gates fill the visor, and as the rider gets closer, we
watch in the reflection as the gates BEGIN TO OPEN --
And through the opening space we see PARIS OPENING UP BEYOND.
The bike speeds through the gates, sending the tortured
figures into a new frenzy, and then he is through and the
reflection is now the frenzy of a PARIS NIGHT STREET...
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
The motorcycle -- a TRIUMPH BONNEVILLE -- swerves and cuts
between two cars like a knife through butter.
The Bonneville dances between lanes as the rider throws his
weight from side to side.
We enjoy his progress; his skill and prowess as he owns the
road.
CLOSE ON the reflective visor of his helmet, the world beyond
zooming by, reflected in the black glass.
His gloved hands on the throttle; his foot as it kicks the
powerful bike through the gears.
The Bonneville BRAKES to a sudden halt. The rider gets off.
Dressed in Belstaff. He removes the helmet. For a brief
second, those bodies writhe across it again -- there, and then
gone -- and we see the rider now: it is HANNIBAL LECTER.
As we haven't seen him before. Looser, longer hair; a little
rougher; a man free of responsibilities.
INT. PARIS PARTY VENUE - NIGHT
PALE YELLOW LIQUID fizzes into a glass flute. A hand takes the
champagne and moves from a bar, and we go with it, revealing --
A PARTY CROWD -- under a banner: "Bon Voyage, Roman Fell."
It is a well-heeled leaving party for DR. ROMAN FELL, a tall,
lean man of 50, sporting a fine academic's beard. He holds
court in the center of the room. He loves the attention of a
crowd of young acolytes and well-wishers.
We move through the throng, toward him. As people part in front
of us, we REVERSE to reveal this is Hannibal Lecter's POV.
His eyes fixed on Roman Fell.
STAY ON Hannibal as he moves lithely through the crowd,
bodies between him and us, he is there and then gone -- like
a tiger moving through the long grass. His eyes never
leaving his prey. Appraising, calculating...
A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN crosses his path, makes eye contact.
Hannibal returns it. Raises his glass.
She smiles, but Hannibal inclines his head and passes on the
invitation to linger. Steps around her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 2.
ANTONY DIMMOND, 40s, tall, lean, somewhat louche-looking --
his clothes expensive, but old and worn -- darts suddenly at
a WAITRESS with a tray of champagne, snaffles two glasses.
He tosses one back quickly, then notices Hannibal noticing.
ANTONY DIMMOND
(re: his two glasses)
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
(then)
Antony Dimmond. I'd offer a hand,
but--
HANNIBAL
It's a double-fisted kind of bash.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Do you know Roman well?
Dimmond clocks Hannibal's eyes wandering back toward Dr. Fell
amid a circle of people.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
You were staring with the thinlyveiled disdain of a man who does.
I was his TA at Cambridge. He was
insufferable even then.
Dimmond finishes the second flute of champagne and puts it on a
passing tray. Grabs two more and hands Hannibal one of them.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Have you read his books? They're
terrible. You know they're
terrible, but you're too polite to
say. Blink if you agree.
(off his blink)
See.
Dimmond pulls a weathered paperback from his coat pocket.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
That doesn't stop him squatting
over a keyboard and depositing a
fresh one every six to eight
months. It has taken me six to
eight months to write one line.
HANNIBAL
Why?
Dimmond stares at Hannibal a moment, as if the answer is
abundantly clear, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 3.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Poetry is hard. Was too hard for
Roman. Easier for him to slide into
academia and dissect the efforts of
others than stand by his own words.
HANNIBAL
One can appreciate another's words
without dissecting them. Though,
on occasion, dissection is the only
thing that will do.
OFF Hannibal's glance in Dr. Fell's direction...
CUT TO:
EXT. PARIS STREETS - NIGHT
Dr. Roman Fell walks home, merrily drunk, excited by the
prospect of his new adventure.
Behind him, our Bonneville idles slowly across the street.
As Hannibal is putting on his helmet:
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir.
Dr. Fell is reflected in the black maw of Hannibal's visor as
Hannibal slowly follows him, then passes him by. CAMERA
follows Dr. Fell as Hannibal's Bonneville speeds away.
EXT./INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT
Dr. Fell enters his building and heads up the stairs. He
stops short when he sees Hannibal standing outside his door.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
DR. FELL
Bonsoir?
CUT TO:
INT. DR. FELL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
BLOOD RED WINE SPLASHES up the sides of a glass.
Hands place an OPERA RECORD on a turntable. CLOSE ON the
needle as it drops.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 4.
BUTTER melts in a pan.
LIVER is tossed in with a sizzle... a dash of brandy is added
and flares into flame.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's knife and fork as it slices through the
liver on his plate.
A blush of blood STAINS the juices on the plate. He brings
it to his lips. Chews.
Delicious.
CUT TO:
PUSH IN OMINOUSLY
On the inside of the closed apartment door.
CLOSER and CLOSER till the handle turns and it opens toward
us -- and a stylishly-dressed woman enters.
MRS. FELL!
She hears the opera and smiles.
Moves toward the dining room.
She halts in the doorway.
CAMERA moves around her to register the cause of her confusion.
MRS. FELL'S POV
Hannibal Lecter sits at the table, linen and cutlery
immaculately placed. Savoring his food, a nice Bordeaux and
the music.
Hannibal smiles up at her.
HANNIBAL
Bonsoir.
END OF TEASER
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 5.
ACT ONE
DARKNESS
A REFLECTIVE SHAPE moves toward CAMERA. It is --
A LARGE SILVER DOME.
It covers a sizeable serving platter that is moving through a
darkened room until, finally, the REFLECTION OF ABEL GIDEON
bows across its surface. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTER'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
ABEL GIDEON sits at the beautifully-appointed table; he has a
drip in one arm and a chest monitor. Under the table, we see
that Gideon is now missing both legs at the thigh. (NOTE:
This takes place between Eps. #206 and 207.)
The silver dome turns and Gideon watches his reflection SLIDE
DOWN the length of the platter. The platter is lifted from
the sidecar and placed in the middle of the dinner table.
The large silver dome rises off the platter as if by unseen
hands floating somewhere in the darkness. Underneath the
dome and further unveiled by a SILKY CLOUD OF SMOKE:
GIDEON'S LEG
From hip to ankle, beautifully roasted with SUGAR CANE QUILLS
sticking out of the flesh in a pleasing grid pattern. It's
mounted on a plank, like a long whole ham.
DR. GIDEON
You really are the Devil.
Certainly seem to enjoy it. You
have a click in your hoof.
FROM GIDEON'S POV -- HANNIBAL
He appears to MATERIALIZE out of the THINNING MIST rising off
the bed of smoking sprigs of thyme.
HANNIBAL
The Devil has been a yoke on the
neck of humanity since we first
began to think and dream.
(then)
I for a much shorter time.
Gideon takes a deep, appreciative breath.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 6.
DR. GIDEON
You admit the yoke.
(then)
Smells like candy apples. And
thyme. You smoked me in thyme.
HANNIBAL
Smoked. Glazed. Slow-cooked.
Served on a sugar cane quill. You
will be falling off the bone.
Hannibal plucks a sugar cane quill, pulling out a MEDALLION
OF MEAT from Gideon's severed leg, like a Popsicle stick, and
placing it on his guest's plate.
DR. GIDEON
Well, of course.
(then)
And with these rarified dishes you
so thoughtfully prepare...
(then)
...do we all taste different?
HANNIBAL
Everyone has their flavor.
Gideon's eyes narrow, not giving Hannibal the satisfaction of
seeing him impressed one way or another.
DR. GIDEON
Cannibalism was standard behavior
among our ancestors. Missing link
is only missing because we ate him.
HANNIBAL
This isn't cannibalism, Abel. It's
only cannibalism if we're equals.
DR. GIDEON
It's only cannibalism if you eat
me. But you feel this is just the
natural order of things? Everybody
gets et?
HANNIBAL
Be he fat or be he lean.
DR. GIDEON
My last leg standing across the
table from me, and I still wrestle
with the urges to fight or flee.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 7.
HANNIBAL
It's called "terminal restlessness."
The body fills with adrenaline and
feels compelled to go-go-go.
DR. GIDEON
"Go-go-go"? I've already got up
and gone. This is posthumous.
HANNIBAL
You're not dead yet, Abel. You
still have to eat.
DR. GIDEON
No, I don't.
Gideon takes a bite of the medallion of meat before him.
It's truly something special, but once again, he doesn't give
Hannibal the satisfaction. Hannibal smiles, regardless.
Gideon is about to take another bite, but pauses to glance
around the beautifully-appointed room and at his devilish host.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
At this point, there is absolutely
nothing I have to do. But I don't
want to spoil the fairy tale, do I?
You and your gingerbread house.
HANNIBAL
Let it be a fairy tale, then.
(then)
Once upon a time...
OFF Hannibal...
GRAND MUSIC begins to rise, taking us to --
INT. FLORENCE BALLROOM - NIGHT
A dazzlingly-dressed couple as they sweep ACROSS FRAME in a
stylish waltz.
It could be a scene from Cinderella's dreams... The glitter
of jewelry and champagne. The dash of black tie and
ballgowns; the dance floor filled with couples sweeping in
graceful patterns across it.
CAMERA moves through the dancing figures to find a
particularly-elegant couple and stays with them as they swoop
across the floor... They waltz around CAMERA, faces hidden
from us as they move in perfect union, until the music comes
to an end and the man dips his partner low to the ground --
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 8.
Revealing Hannibal and a stunning BEDELIA DU MAURIER... a
prince and his princess. He smiles down at her, both
somewhat breathless.
A beat, and then he pulls her back to him.
HANNIBAL
Bellissima.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
Hannibal snags them both champagne off a passing tray.
SOGLIATO (O.S.)
Dr. Fell, I hope you translate as
well as you waltz.
SOGLIATO is a smooth, oily Italian, late 30s. Impeccably
dressed. An academic who wears his ego like armor. Sogliato
kisses Bedelia's hand and then shakes Hannibal's. He stands
with SIGNOR and SIGNORA ALBIZZI -- president of the museum's
governing board.
SIGNOR ALBIZZI
Our new appointee was confirmed by
the board after close questioning.
SOGLIATO
You've examined him in medieval
Italian, and I will not deny his
language is admirable.
Bedelia watches this exchange. Intrigued. Aware others in
the crowd are observing. As is Sogliato...
HANNIBAL
Thank you.
SOGLIATO
For a straniero.
Sogliato smiles at the audience now ear-wigging shamelessly.
Bedelia is watching Hannibal, the way his eyes go dead for a
second at the insult before he smiles.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Are you familiar with the
personalities of pre-Renaissance
Florence? I think not. (a smile for Bedelia)
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 9.
(MORE)
Dr. Fell might hold in his hand --
in his non-Italian hand -- a note
from Dante Alighieri himself. Would
he recognize it? I think not.
Bedelia intercedes:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato, would you do me
the honor of a dance?
Bedelia offers her arm. Keen to lead him away. Hannibal
noting her intention. As they turn away:
HANNIBAL "Allegro mi sembrava Amor tenendo /
meo core in mano, e ne le braccia
avea / madonna involta in un drappo
dormendo. / Poi la svegliava, e
d'esto core ardendo / lei paventosa
umilmente pascea; / appreso gir lo
ne vedea piangendo."
Some of those listening applaud loudly at this stirring
recital. Sogliato hates it. Bedelia smiles at Hannibal.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dante's first sonnet. It
fascinated Cavalcanti. The eating
of the heart is a powerful image.
Hannibal doesn't have to be smug; Signor Albizzi is smug for
him. Off that smugness:
SOGLIATO
If he's such an expert on Dante,
let him lecture on Dante, to the
Studiolo. Let him face them.
(then)
Extempore.
The reaction of the crowd says this is a strong challenge.
Hannibal merely inclines his head.
HANNIBAL
I'm happy to sing for my supper.
He holds Sogliato's gaze. Battle met.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Professor Sogliato.
Bedelia looks to Sogliato who takes her hand to dance.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 10.
SOGLIATO (CONTD)
Hannibal smiles at Bedelia who doesn't return his smile.
EXT. FLORENCE - NIGHT
CAMERA moves across the city as the evening gathers and the
streets empty, the fan pattern of the cobbles shining in a
drizzle. CAMERA finds A SILHOUETTED MAN on a balcony.
CLOSE ON HANNIBAL
As we watch, his face becomes washed with amber, as if under
liquid, flowing and indistinct.
We are now --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
STAY ON this Hannibal in amber, framed within the proscenium
arch of his balcony, looking out over Florence...
HANNIBAL
We are among the palaces built six
hundred years ago by the merchant
princes, the kingmakers and
connivers of Renaissance Florence.
...until Bedelia reaches for the glass of brandy he is
offering her and breaks the illusion.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
As connivers of modern Florence.
Hannibal looks out over the city, considering its romance.
HANNIBAL
I've found a peace here that I
would preserve. I've killed hardly
anybody during our residence.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You created the vacancy at the
Palazzo Capponi by removing the
former curator.
HANNIBAL
A simple process requiring a few
seconds' work on the old man and a
modest outlay for two bags of cement.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You no longer have ethical
problems, Hannibal. You have
aesthetical ones.
(re: her zipper)
Could you?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 11.
She turns and Hannibal stands behind her and slowly unzips
her dress, revealing her bare back.
HANNIBAL
Ethics become aesthetics.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You seem more concerned with making
appearances than maintaining them.
HANNIBAL
If this is about my position at the
Palazzo, once the path was cleared,
I won the job fairly. On my merits.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes, even the most-contentious
Florentines can't resist the verse
of Dante ringing off frescoed walls.
HANNIBAL
One contentious Florentine can.
Bedelia crosses into:
INT. HANNIBAL'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY/BEDELIA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
A large, freestanding CAST-IRON BATH in there. Bedelia
enters and turns the ornate taps. Water thunders out. She
turns to see Hannibal in the doorway.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Have you given serious thought to
eating Professor Sogliato?
HANNIBAL
My killing Sogliato now would not
preserve the peace.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Your peace is without morality.
HANNIBAL
Morality doesn't exist. Only morale.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How you feel today.
HANNIBAL
How do you feel today?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I still believe I'm in conscious
control of my actions. Given your
history, that's a good day.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 12.
OFF Bedelia's soft, polite smile...
CLOSE ON A RUSHING TAP
It is turned off and the steaming torrent becomes a DRIP. The
drip sends RINGS spreading to the deep sides of the bathtub.
Bedelia lies back and IMMERSES herself under the water. The
surface six inches from her mouth. Like Ophelia lying under
the surface of the lake... HOLDING HER BREATH -- A SINGLE
BUBBLE escapes her lips and slowly pops on the surface. She
stares upward. Slowly, her eyes close.
Around her, the water DARKENS TO BLACK, as if the bottom of
the bath has fallen away to reveal an ENDLESS DEPTH. And now
Bedelia is SLOWLY SINKING, horizontally sliding downward into
the Stygian dark...
BEDELIA'S POV -- amid the darkness, GNARLED ROOTS clamber
around one another, slick and wet amid the water...
LOWER and LOWER she sinks, beyond this level, into the next.
Until finally she comes to the BOTTOM and her body comes to
rest in a black silt that RISES AROUND HER in SWIRLS and
WISPS, as if welcoming her into its grasp.
ON BEDELIA'S CLOSED EYES
Another SOLITARY BUBBLE rises from her lips, and we RISE AWAY
from her to follow its progress.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
An area of ARTISAN FOOD STORES -- the streets thronged with
shoppers. CAMERA finds Bedelia among them, moving through
the crowd, a distant focus in her eyes.
CLOSE ON BEDELIA
A POLICE CONSTABLE comes down the street toward her. He
smiles, tips his hat to the beautiful lady. She nods, her
smile fading the moment he passes.
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
An elegant Florentine fine grocer filled with fine wines and
exotic cheeses. Bedelia approaches the CLERK at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
CUT TO:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 13.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
Bedelia sits on a bench, her shopping bag from Vera dal 1926
next to her. CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal...
...she sits on the platform of a train station.
A CCTV camera sits above her, covering the length of the
platform. Bedelia looks up at it and then back to the TRAIN
which is about to depart. Its open carriage doors are an
invitation... Will she take it?
OFF Bedelia...
END OF ACT ONE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 14.
ACT TWO
EXT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PUSHES IN as headlights roll up the driveway and
across the siding of the house as a car approaches.
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - FOYER/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA moves through the darkened hall until FRAMING AN
EXTREME CLOSE-UP ON THE FRONT DOORKNOB.
The SOUND OF A KEY in the door --
Breaks the quiet. LIGHT SPILLS in as the door opens.
Bedelia enters.
She turns to the living room as CAMERA reveals almost every
piece of her furniture is beneath a drop cloth, protected
against dust for an indefinite period of time -- just as she
left it before she fled Hannibal and the FBI.
(NOTE: Bedelia has just come from the FBIs interrogation
room, as seen in Ep. #212, Tome-wan.)
Bedelia takes in the shroud of the chairs, walking the rooms
periphery, searching for some sense of herself. She pauses.
AN EMPTY CHAIR
Where she left a glass-cut perfume bottle for Hannibal weeks
earlier. Its gone. She considers its absence, then:
CLOSE ON THE SPIKE OF A CORKSCREW
It TWISTS through the cork in a bottle of wine. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia opens the bottle of wine and pours herself a glass.
She reacts, twists the bottle upward to stem the flow. One
last drop of wine falls into the glass and she listens.
CAMERA FOLLOWS BEDELIA
She moves into the hall as a distinct sound grows louder and
louder until she recognizes it. The shower is running.
INT. BEDELIA'S HOUSE - BEDROOM/BATHROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
She moves into her bedroom, toward the open door of her
bathroom through which she can see bloody clothes strewn
across the floor and a MAN IN HER SHOWER.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 15.
HANNIBAL
He stands naked in Bedelias shower, blood thinly streaming
from his various cuts and wounds as water washes them clean.
He twists the pressure valve closed until the water only drips.
Hannibal steps out of the shower, allowing the water to bead
off of him, before grabbing a towel to dry himself.
There is a familiar CLICK of a gun cocking and Hannibal
realizes he is no longer alone.
HANNIBALS POV -- THE SHADOWS
He slowly pushes the bathroom door open, casting light into
the bedroom and finally illuminating Bedelia sitting calmly,
holding a gun in one hand and a glass of wine in the other.
BEDELIAS POV -- HANNIBAL
He stands naked, silhouetted in the doorway.
HANNIBAL
May I get dressed?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You may.
Hannibal lets his towel drop and pulls on his underwear.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER (CONTD)
What have you done, Hannibal?
HANNIBAL
Ive taken off my person suit.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
You let them see you.
HANNIBAL
I let them see enough.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
How does that feel? Being seen?
Hannibal shrugs on his shirt and buttons it.
HANNIBAL
Youre not in a position to ask,
Dr. Du Maurier. You ended our
patient-psychiatrist relationship.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 16.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I lacked the appropriate skills to
continue your treatment.
HANNIBAL
I never found you to be lacking.
She studies him a moment, then:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im sorry I didnt leave you with a
suitable substitute for therapy.
(then)
Is Will Graham still alive?
Hannibal goes still. A quiet moment as he curbs his emotions.
HANNIBAL
Will Graham was not a suitable
substitute for therapy.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What was he?
HANNIBAL
Is this professional curiosity?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Almost entirely.
HANNIBAL
Do you trust me?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not entirely.
(then)
Trust is driven by an emotional
sense of what to do, and a very
conscious sense what not to do.
HANNIBAL
Are you taking into account my
beliefs about your intentions?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My intentions?
HANNIBAL
Human motivation can be little more
than lucid greed.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Greed and blind optimism.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 17.
HANNIBAL
Youre optimistic I wont kill you.
OFF Bedelia as she smoothly un-cocks the gun in her hand,
sets it aside and takes a sip of wine.
PRE-LAP A SUDDEN SQUEALING --
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - DAY
The hurly-burly of the Paris train about to depart. Lastminute PASSENGERS jumping aboard.
CONDUCTORS make their last calls.
Train doors SLAM.
The SIGNAL LIGHTS change.
The Paris train pulls out of the station slowly, revealing
Bedelia still sitting on her bench, watching it go...
CCTV -- looking down on Bedelia as she looks up at the
camera... looking anything but optimistic.
MUSIC RISES over her, taking us to --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - DAY
A darkened room. The music plays as Hannibal works on his
speech to the Studiolo, rapt and transported.
CLOSE ON Hannibal's face and hands, light flickering over
them as he works with slides and a projector.
Hannibal studies paintings and poems, writing notes, struck
by their power. Absorbed in a world of beauty and intellect.
Happy.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - CORRIDOR - DAY
ON HANNIBAL
Smiling, happy with life, as he walks down a vaulted
corridor, light and shadow alternating on his face as he
passes the windows...
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY/FOYER - DAY
He comes down a wide flight of stone stairs and into the foyer.
Bright sunlight shines in from the outside.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 18.
Hannibal walks toward it, the LENS FLARING as he becomes a
silhouette, his face going to darkness as the bright sunlight
of the doorframe envelopes him.
MATCH CUT TO:
EXT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - DAY
As Hannibal emerges onto the steps and looks across the busy
square.
ANTONY DIMMOND (O.S.)
Hello! Bonjour!
Hannibal does not realize this is directed at him, but as he
heads down the stairs, a hand grabs his arm.
ON HANNIBAL -- for a second his eyes threaten violence -- but
then he turns to see:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sporting stubble and wild hair. He seems absentminded, but
his eyes are sharp.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
We met in Paris a few months back.
Sorry, didn't mean to startle you,
but here I was and then, there you
were... I never forget a face...
HANNIBAL
Antony Dimmond.
Dimmond beams with pleasure.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Nice to be remembered.
HANNIBAL
You're hard to forget.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What are you doing in Florence?
Are you working with Roman?
HANNIBAL
Dr. Fell?
ANTONY DIMMOND
I heard he took an appointment at
the Capponi library.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 19.
ON HANNIBAL -- Dimmond is astute beneath his manner. Doesn't
miss much, it seems.
HANNIBAL
Yes, he's the new curator and
translator of the Palazzo Capponi.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Evidently, the last one eloped with
a woman or someone's money or both.
Hannibal is cool.
HANNIBAL
That's the commonly-held belief.
(then)
You just missed Roman.
Dimmond looks crestfallen.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Did I? Was hoping to take the piss.
Hannibal studies Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
Spare the piss for the time being.
If you're free, my wife and I would
love to have you for dinner.
END OF ACT TWO
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 20.
ACT THREE
CLOSE ON A SNAIL
It moves at a snail's pace across a slick, fleshy surface.
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal it is one snail among dozens.
We are --
INT. COCHLEAR GARDEN - DARK (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK until it reveals a plump snail
feasting on the tip of a human finger.
The snails are crawling across the flesh of an arm resting in
a pool of wine marinade, also consumed by dozens of snails.
Fingers of the living reach INTO FRAME and pluck the plump
snail from the fingers of the marinating severed arm.
CLOSE ON A PLUMP SNAIL
CAMERA RACK FOCUSES onto Hannibal studying the snail as it
crawls across his fingers. He's dressed in a three-piece
plaid suit and an apron, harvesting his cochlear garden.
HANNIBAL
Listen.
He holds his breath for a moment and we hear dozens of little
RASP-LIKE TONGUES CHEWING on Gideon's severed arm.
Reveal Gideon.
He is listening, but not as impressed as Hannibal -- as it is
his flesh the snails are chewing. He sits on a motorized
wheelchair. His left arm is missing below the shoulder. The
fresh amputation wound is tightly dressed.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
They prefer eating in company.
Hannibal plucks snails from their moist roosts, collecting
them in an elegant glass cylinder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
I've kept cochlear gardens since I
was a young man, fattening snails on
herbs and vine leaves. Like all of
us, what they eat greatly influences
and enhances their flavor.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 21.
DR. GIDEON
When I'm not eating myself, you
wish me to be eating oysters.
Drinking sweet wines, snacking on
acorns. All to make me tastier?
HANNIBAL
Oh yes.
(re: the snails)
And you are making them tastier.
DR. GIDEON
And I you. Imagine what you must
taste like. Won't be long before
someone takes a bite out of you.
Hannibal notes Gideon's tone.
HANNIBAL
When agitated, sea snails produce a
purple dye. Its color won't fade.
Becomes brighter with weathering.
(then)
You're becoming brighter, Abel.
Dying hasn't dulled you one bit.
Gideon politely turns his attention back to the snails:
DR. GIDEON
The snails are certainly having a
lovely experience, fattened on me
in a red-wine marinade. They have
no idea they're going to be eaten.
(then)
We do.
CLOSE ON AN OYSTER SHELL
CAMERA crawls across its surface. A SHUCKING BLADE ENTERS
FRAME and splits the shell, at its hinge, with a twist,
removing the lid and revealing the oyster.
The oyster in its cup is placed on a bed of ice, SPINNING to
reveal it is joining a dozen oysters fanned across a platter.
A woman's hand ENTERS FRAME and takes an oyster.
CAMERA follows the oyster to reveal Bedelia. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Bedelia sits with Hannibal and Antony Dimmond at the table.
She is hiding her fears well, surrounded by a tray of oysters
and nuts. Hannibal at ease, a platter of meats between him and
Dimmond, who enjoys the hospitality, pours himself more wine.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 22.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(to Dimmond)
How well do you know the Fells?
She shoots the oyster in her imperceptibly-trembling hand.
ANTONY DIMMOND
As well as anybody. Which'd be not
really. Lydia a friend of yours?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Not really.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I'd be surprised to hear she had
one. We share a mutual detestation.
She disapproves of my disapproval.
HANNIBAL
What do you disapprove of?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Roman, mainly. Lydia isn't quite
bright enough to see I'm just
intimidated. Roman does, of course.
How he loves to strike fear.
HANNIBAL
Dante wrote that fear is almost as
bitter as death.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Dante wasn't dead when he wrote it.
HANNIBAL
Are you traveling alone, Antony?
The question sends a shudder down Bedelia's spine.
ANTONY DIMMOND
It's the only way I travel.
HANNIBAL
Roman is speaking to the Studiolo
Friday. On Dante. You should come.
If Bedelia had been chewing, she would have choked.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Sounds appropriately hellish.
Dimmond clocks Bedelia as she reaches for another oyster.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 23.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Are you avoiding meats?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I'm trying not to eat anything with
a central nervous system.
Dimmond calls out the food in her corner of the table:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Oysters, acorns and Marsala. That's
what ancient Romans would feed
animals to improve their flavor.
Bedelia does her best to hide her realization, steadies
herself. Hannibal watches her very closely as she digests.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
My husband has quite a
sophisticated palette. He's
particular about how I taste.
Bedelia shoots another oyster back. Hannibal stares. An
uncomfortably-long beat as Dimmond considers that. Finally:
ANTONY DIMMOND
Is it that kind of party?
HANNIBAL
It is not that kind of party.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No, it really isn't.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Shame. You were both suddenly so
fascinating.
HARD CUT TO:
INT. HANNIBAL'S FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Dimmond stands in the open doorway, shrugging on his coat as
Hannibal and Bedelia see him out.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Buonasera.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Buonasera.
HANNIBAL
Buonasera.
Hannibal closes the door as Dimmond walks away.
A moment, then:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 24.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(curious)
You let him go.
HANNIBAL
What would you have me do, Bedelia?
As Bedelia ponders Hannibal's question...
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
Bedelia walks down the street.
CAMERA follows her from across the street, keeping pace.
ANGLE ON ANTONY DIMMOND
Also walking the streets. Moving through the crowds,
following Bedelia.
INTERCUT their progress.
Bedelia moves with purpose. Resolved. Anxious.
Dimmond moves with greater freedom, not a care in the world.
Is he stalking her?
Bedelia crosses the street, narrowly avoiding a car that
screeches to a halt before it would have run her down.
Dimmond turns to the sound to see Bedelia disappearing into:
INT. VERA DAL 1926 - DAY
Navigating her way through the pastas and hams, Bedelia
approaches the clerk at the counter:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Due bottiglie di Btard-Montrachet
e li tartufi bianchi, per favore.
As the clerk prepares the order, Antony strides across the
grocery store, directly toward Bedelia.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Florentines say Vera dal, with its
wealth of cheeses and truffles,
smells like the feet of God.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Hello, Mr. Dimmond.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 25.
ANTONY DIMMOND
I don't know if it's you, me or God,
but there's something in the air.
The clerk hands Bedelia her bag.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Grazie.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Dinner was lovely. I must confess
to a certain abstract curiosity
about your husband... Mrs. Fell.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(stares, then)
Good-bye, Mr. Dimmond.
Bedelia takes the bag and exits. Dimmond follows.
EXT. FLORENCE STREETS - DAY
CAMERA leads Bedelia out of Vera dal 1926 as Dimmond stands
in the doorway behind her, watching her go a moment, then:
ANTONY DIMMOND
I asked one of the scholars at the
Palazzo to point me in the
direction of Dr. Fell. He raised
one craggy old finger and pointed
it directly at your husband. I
thought the old codger made a
mistake, but there was no mistake.
Bedelia keeps walking. Dimmond quickens his pace to catch up.
ANTONY DIMMOND (CONTD)
Even in the teeth of evidence,
you're just going to walk away.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Those aren't the teeth you should
be concerned about.
Bedelia tries to control the tremble building inside her.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Where are Roman and Lydia?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I don't know.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Does your husband know?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 26.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He's not my husband. He is
something entirely Other.
ANTONY DIMMOND
The man is curating an exposition
of Atrocious Torture Instruments.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
The essence of the worst of the
human spirit is not found in the
iron maiden or the whetted edge.
Elemental ugliness, Mr. Dimmond, is
found in the faces of the crowd.
(then)
However you think you're going to
manipulate this situation to your
advantage, think again.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Bluebeard's wife. Secrets you're
not to know, yet sworn to keep.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
If I'm to be Bluebeard's wife, I
would prefer to be the last one.
(then)
Unless you believe you are beyond
harm, go to the police.
ANTONY DIMMOND
You want to be caught.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
END OF ACT THREE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 27.
ACT FOUR
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA PULLS BACK to find her lying flat on her back, covered
in blood. Shes breathing heavy, trembling.
There is a faint gurgling, choking sound that slowly begins to
register on her conscious mind through the sharp HUM of her
ringing ears and THUMPING of her circulatory system. She turns
and CAMERA reveals, lying on the floor next to her, is...
A DYING MAN
Hes dazed, choking on the blood overflowing from his mouth,
eyes rolling back until only the whites are visible.
He stiffens. After a long, horrible moment, he dies.
Bedelia stares, her jagged breath rattles in her ears, heart
racing. She sits up, unable to take her eyes off the dead
man lying next to her.
She raises a hand to brush the matted hair from her face, and
stops. Her hand looks like it has been dunked in a bucket of
blood up to her mid-forearm.
QUICK CUT TO:
MERE MOMENTS EARLIER
Bedelia straddles her PATIENT, holding him by the collar of
his shirt with one hand, the other hand is jammed down his
throat up to the mid-forearm. His eyes bulge.
BACK TO:
BEDELIA
She rises INTO FRAME, standing over her dead patient, and
CAMERA reveals Hannibal standing in the hallway behind her.
HANNIBAL
Bedelia.
Bedelia barely startles, turning to see Hannibal behind her.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He attacked me.
HANNIBAL
Is that your blood?
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 28.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
No.
Hannibal crouches next to the dead patient and examines his
hands -- theyre clean, free of blood or tissue.
HANNIBAL
You were... defending yourself?
A slow, guilty nod.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was reckless. Reckless violence
is a poor survival mechanism.
HANNIBAL
This wasnt reckless violence. It
was a controlled use of force.
Bedelia is haunted by the truth, tries to reassure herself:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not confused. My imagination
isnt filling in the gaps. I know
what happened here.
HANNIBAL
Do you?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
He was your patient before he was
mine, Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
He died under your care.
(then)
Aggression can be an effective
means of maintaining order when
dealing with an unruly patient.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Im not an aggressive person.
HANNIBAL
Im sure you reacted with a level
of aggression that was uniquely
appropriate for this encounter.
(then)
But you werent defending yourself.
Hannibal stares, seeing right through her.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 29.
A SERIES OF CLOSE SHOTS ON -- BEDELIA:
She unbuttons her bloody blouse, slipping it off her
shoulders and peeling it down her abdomen, exposing her
bloodstained undergarments. We are --
INT. BEDELIAS HOUSE - BATHROOM/BEDROOM - DAY (FLASHBACK)
Bedelia is silhouetted in the doorway, much like Hannibal
was. CAMERA reveals Hannibal watching her from the shadows
of the bedroom, much like Bedelia was watching Hannibal.
HANNIBAL
I can help you tell the version of
events you want to be told. I can
help you, if you ask me to.
She opens the shower door and turns the nozzle. The
showerhead sprinkles and surges to life.
Bedelia raises her bloodstained hand to the shower stream,
allowing the red to wash away in rivulets down her arm.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Will you help me?
As Hannibals helpful grin starts to dawn...
ON BEDELIA
She stands under the shower, the water washes over her.
STREAMS OF WATER from the showerhead slow until they become
BEADS SUSPENDED IN MIDAIR above Bedelias upturned face.
MATCH CUT TO:
SCATTERED MOTES OF DUST
They float through the SLANT OF LIGHT cutting through the
darkness over Bedelias upturned face. We are now --
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT (PRESENT)
Bedelia is beautifully coiffed and elegantly dressed. She
sits among the dragons of the Studiolo, dozens of the mostrenowned medieval and Renaissance scholars in the world.
They sit in rows of folding chairs, surrounded by DOZENS OF
TORTURE INSTRUMENTS, all in various states of restoration.
Hannibals voice creeps into Bedelias consciousness:
HANNIBAL (O.S.)
In accord with my own taste for the
pre-Renaissance...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 30.
The SLANT OF LIGHT over her head projects an IMAGE on a large
drop cloth suspended from the ceiling like a screen.
AN ILLUSTRATION OF SATAN
His three faces, half-immersed in ice, chewing on Brutus,
Cassius and Judas Iscariot, while weeping. Hannibal is a
dark figure pacing the aisles as he speaks:
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
...I present the case of Pietro
della Vigna, whose treachery earned
him a place in Dantes Hell.
ON HANNIBAL
He steps into the light, in front of the illustration of
Satan, its horns peeking out from behind his head.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
He was disgraced and blinded for
betraying his emperors trust.
He presses the switch in his palm and the illustration behind
him is now depicting Dante's nine levels of Hell.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Dantes pilgrim finds him in the
seventh level of the Inferno,
reserved for suicides. Like Judas
Iscariot, he died by hanging.
Hannibal paces the aisle, slowly approaching Bedelia.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Judas and Pietro della Vigna are
linked in Dantes Inferno.
Hannibal places a gentle hand on Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal and hanging, then, linked
since antiquity, the image
appearing again and again in art.
An ART SLIDE appears on the drop cloth. Hannibal begins
pacing again, taking his hand off Bedelias shoulder.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
This is the earliest-known
depiction of the Crucifixion,
carved on an ivory box in Gaul
about A.D. four hundred.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 31.
(MORE)
It includes the death by hanging of
Judas, his face upturned to the
branch that suspends him.
NEW ANGLE
A NEW SLIDE appears as CAMERA reveals Antony Dimmond quietly
listening to Hannibals lecture from the back of the room.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
On the doors of the Benevento
Cathedral, we see Judas hanging
with his bowels falling out.
Hannibal squeezes the remote and ANOTHER SLIDE appears.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
And here, from a fifteenth-century
edition of The Inferno, is Pietro
della Vignas body hanging from a
bleeding tree. I wont belabor the
parallels with Judas Iscariot.
ON BEDELIA
Her eyes wander until they find Mr. Dimmond listening
intently. Her face goes slack.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Betrayal, hanging, self-destruction.
Hannibal addresses Bedelia almost directly without singling
her out in the audience, all with a glance.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
"Io fei gibetto a me de le mie case."
(translating)
I make my own home be my gallows.
Bedelia averts her eyes just as Hannibal notices Dimmond.
His composure only falters for a brief moment.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Mr. Dimmond. Welcome. Please join
us. We were just about to discuss
the matter of chewing in Dante.
Dimmond smiles politely, then takes a seat. Hannibal glances
at Bedelia, but her chair is now vacant.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 32.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - STAIRWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia hurries away from Hannibals presentation as APPLAUSE
erupts from the Studiolo.
INT. PALAZZO CAPPONI - SALON - NIGHT
The dry-yet-enthusiastic applause trickles to a stop as
Hannibal nods his thanks to the Studiolo as they stand and
filter out of the hall.
HANNIBAL
Thank you for your kind attention.
Sogliato is gathering his belongings as Hannibal approaches.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Would you say I secured my
position, Professor Sogliato?
SOGLIATO
The Studiolo seems satisfied.
Dimmond waltzes up, joining Hannibal and Sogliato.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Satisfied? That applause was
downright enthusiastic in its soft
and dusty way.
SOGLIATO
Dottor Fell is a friend of yours?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Ive only known him a short time.
Still, the tales I could tell.
SOGLIATO
Please do.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What kind of friend would I be?
SOGLIATO
What kind of friend, indeed.
(to Hannibal)
Dottore.
Without another word, Sogliato moves off, suppressing an eye
roll, joining the Studiolo as they exit. Dimmond eyes the
various torture instruments surrounding them:
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 33.
ANTONY DIMMOND
An exposition of Atrocious Torture
Instruments appeals to connoisseurs
of the very worst in mankind.
HANNIBAL
Now that ceaseless exposure has
calloused us to the lewd and the
vulgar, it is instructive to see
what still seems wicked to us.
ANTONY DIMMOND
What still slaps the clammy flab of
our submissive consciousness hard
enough to get our attention?
HANNIBAL
What wickedness has your attention,
Mr. Dimmond?
Hannibal and Dimmond circle a BREAKING WHEEL as they assess
each others intentions.
ANTONY DIMMOND
Yours, Dr. Fell. I have no
delusions of morality; if I had, I
wouldve gone to la polizia. (then)
Im curious what fate befell Dr.
Fell to see you here in his stead.
Hannibal studies Mr. Dimmond a moment, then:
HANNIBAL
You may have to strap me to the
breaking wheel to loosen my tongue.
ANTONY DIMMOND
No torture was required to loosen
your wife/not-your-wifes tongue.
(off Hannibal's look)
She overestimated my affection for
the genuine Dr. Fell. Clearly, you
found him as distasteful as I did.
HANNIBAL
On the contrary.
ANTONY DIMMOND
We can twist ourselves into all
manner of uncomfortable positions
just to maintain appearances, with
or without a breaking wheel.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 34.
HANNIBAL
Are you here to twist me into an
uncomfortable position?
ANTONY DIMMOND
Im here to help you untwist... to
our mutual benefit.
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - ENTRYWAY - NIGHT
Bedelia has donned a coat and is carrying a small suitcase,
hurrying toward the door. She reaches for the doorknob and
stops short. Its starting to turn...
The door opens and Hannibal ushers Antony Dimmond inside. He
averts his eyes away from Bedelias gaze.
POV FROM THE HALL
As Hannibal slowly shuts the door on anyones escape.
END OF ACT FOUR
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 35.
ACT FIVE
CLOSE ON BEDELIA DU MAURIER -- SLOW MOTION
VIOLENT SHADOWS dance across her face. We are in the fog of
Bedelias experience, her hearing numbed by the wash of her
circulatory system and a HIGH-PITCHED RINGING intermittently
broken by STACCATO BURSTS of a terrified heart.
CAMERA SLOWLY PULLS BACK
The violent shadows continue their SLOW DANCE across Bedelia
and the wall behind her as Hannibal brutally and efficiently
dispatches Antony Dimmond to the afterlife. Her suitcase is
next to her, her coat draped over her chair. We are --
INT. HANNIBALS FLORENCE APARTMENT - NIGHT
Bedelia is unflinching despite jagged breaths rattling at the
back of her throat. Hannibal stands over Dimmonds corpse.
HANNIBAL
Observe or participate.
The words dont immediately land with Bedelia, still stunned
at what she has witnessed. She slowly looks at Hannibal:
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
What?
HANNIBAL
Are you, in this very moment,
observing or participating?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Observing.
The corners of Hannibals lips curl ever so slightly.
HANNIBAL
If you can see me, I can see you.
Hannibal leans over Dimmonds broken corpse in a FRAME
reminiscent of him leaning over Bedelias dead patient.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
You say youre observing, but this,
this is participation, Bedelia.
(off her look)
Did you know what he would do when
you asked him to help you? Id
prefer you answer honestly.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 36.
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
This always goes better if one of
us is honest.
HANNIBAL
Have you been honest with yourself?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
I was curious.
HANNIBAL
You were curious what would happen.
You were curious what Mr. Dimmond
would do. What I would do.
(then)
Did you anticipate our thoughts?
Counter-thoughts? Rationalizations?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
Yes.
HANNIBAL
(re: Dimmonds body)
Is this what you expected?
BEDELIA DU MAURIER
(a moment, then)
Yes.
HANNIBAL
Thats participation.
Hannibal crosses to Bedelias suitcase, picking it up.
HANNIBAL (CONTD)
Whatve you gotten yourself into,
Bedelia?
(off her silence)
Shall I hang up your coat?
Bedelia absently hands him her coat. Hannibal moves into the
bedroom. Through the open door we can see him place
Bedelias suitcase on the bed and begin to unpack it.
OFF Bedelia staring at Mr. Dimmonds body...
CLOSE ON A BEAUTIFUL VINTAGE LEATHER STEAMER TRUNK
CAMERA reveals TWO PORTERS carry the trunk toward...
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 37.
EXT. FLORENCE TRAIN STATION - PLATFORM - DAY
Hannibal ENTERS FRAME behind the two porters and the trunk en
route to the awaiting TRAIN CAR. Dressed in an elegant travel
coat, he strikes a dashing figure as he boards the train.
INT. TRAIN CAR - DAY
Hannibal shares a private compartment with his steamer trunk.
As CAMERA PUSHES IN, Hannibals gaze drifts to the window as
a stunning Italian landscape blurs past...
SNAILS
They topple into a hot pan, a brandy flamb erupts around
them. As the fire starts to fade, a shower of white wine
douses the flame and we EXTINGUISH TO BLACK.
CAMERA PULLS OUT OF A LARGE AFRICAN SNAIL SHELL
The tiny snails from the cochlear garden are tumbling out
onto the dinner table, beautifully cooked. We are --
INT. HANNIBAL LECTERS HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT (FLASHBACK)
CAMERA CONTINUES PULLING BACK to reveal Hannibal and Gideon
at the table, flanking the large snail shell. Surrounding
the mouth of the shell are various oysters in the half-shell.
HANNIBAL
Would you rather I extended you the
same kindness as the escargot?
DR. GIDEON
Eating me without my knowledge? I
find knowing to be much more
powerful than not knowing. Why do
you think I'm allowing this?
Hannibal studies his dinner companion, appreciating his bite.
HANNIBAL
Why do you think I'm allowing this?
DR. GIDEON
Snails aren't the only creatures
who prefer to eat in company.
Gideon forks a snail in its shell, which is secured
decoratively so he can use one arm, and pops it in his mouth.
DR. GIDEON (CONTD)
I'm fascinated to know how you will
feel when all this... happens to you.
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 38.
EXT. PALERMO - NORMAN PALACE - DAWN
Time-lapse establishing.
INT. NORMAN CHAPEL - DAWN
Ornate, inspiring and severe.
Morning light glances down from the stained-glass windows,
casting colored pools and dense shadows.
CAMERA prowls the aisles between the rows of pews and finds A
GARGANTUAN HUMAN HEART -- not the organ itself, but a
representation, skillfully molded from the CORPSE OF ANTONY
DIMMOND.
The torso is tucked into a fetal position, hands and feet
have been cut off mid-forearm/mid-shin. The arms and legs
broken and bent to mimic the ventricles and aorta. Dimmonds
head has been removed.
The dark red blood streaking the body and the pallor of the
dead skin create the purplish hues of a recently-removed organ.
The heart is pierced by three swords pushed through the
body at angles, to both secure the organic sculpture in place
and provide a tripod to lift it from the ground.
It almost appears to be a horrifying brazier awaiting flame.
As the sun rises, the multicolored shafts of light beaming
through the stained-glass windows spotlight Hannibals
creation in all its glory...
OFF the tableau, placed amid the gorgeous light, in a
monument to God and mans adulation of him, we...
CUT TO BLACK.
END OF EPISODE
HANNIBAL Ep. #301 "Antipasto" FINAL DRAFT 12/07/14 39.
INTERVIEW WITH A SERIAL KILLER
WRITTEN BY
BUCK BIESTEK
Biestekbailbonds.com
215 Old Farms West
Middletown, CT 06457
860-836-8713
FADE IN.
EXT. PRISON
Barbed wire fence surrounds the perimeter of the building.
INT. INTERVIEW ROOM
HERCULES GERALDO SMOTHERS, (20), dressed in prison whites,
hat, interviews with RUM PODER (50) slicked hair, goatee,
glasses.
We hear Time is on my side by the Rolling Stones.
CLOSE on Hercules hand cuffed to metal bar.
WIDE to Hercules and Rum sitting across from each other.
Hercules rolls a lollipop around his mouth.
MODERATOR (O.S.)
This is the last known interview of
serial killer Hercules Geraldo
Smothers.
CLOSE on Rum.
RUM
Good evening ladies and gentlemen,
welcome to another edition of
Execution Day. I am your host Rum
Poder. Today we interview notorious
serial killer Hercules Geraldo
Smothers.
CLOSE on Hercules. He pulls out lollipop.
RUM (CONTD)
Before we get started, I like your
hat. Where did you get it?
HERCULES
Parting gift from the warden.
Rum nods head, smiles.
RUM
Well, todays the day. How do you
feel?
HERCULES
I feel great, very angry, but
overall, I feel great.
RUM
What led you to this point in your
life that you have built up so much
rage and anger?
HERCULES
Listen motor oil hair.
Rum leans away from table wrinkles forehead.
HERCULES (CONTD)
Heres what went down. I was
hanging around, minding my own,
kicking back, trying to relax. All
a sudden, two sliding doors openRum leans cheeks to one side. Lets one loose.
RUM
Excuse me, I had some bad
watermelon.
HERCULES
I had no idea what was going on. So
I popped my head out a little. Then
the doors opened wider and a pair
of hands grabbed my skull something
fierce.
Rum leans cheeks to other side. Lets one go.
RUM
Thats my bad. The seedless does it
to me every time.
Hercules clears his personal air with his free hand.
HERCULES
Dude, this is the last thing I need
before I get zapped.
Shot of microwave being turned on.
RUM
It wont happen again. By the way,
you know you have a choice. The
chair, beheading, mauling, firing
squad, Kevorkian special,
continuous re-runs of Wheel of
Fortune.
2.
HERCULES
Let me think about my options.
CLOSE on wall clock. It reads 11 PM.
RUM
Those hands that you speak of,
whose were they?
HERCULES
I had no idea at first, I later
found out they belonged to the same
guy that assaulted me.
CLOSE on Rum nodding.
HERCULES (CONTD)
He pulled, I fought back. Then all
of a sudden he dragged me out of my
house and there I was.
RUM
Where were you?
HERCULES
Where the hell do you think I was
Mr. Magoo?
Rum leans away again, bends arms, point palms skyward.
The telephone rings.
CLOSE on phone.
Hercules and Rum both eye phone, then each other.
RUM
Could be the governor. Go ahead,
answer it.
Hercules unable to reach phone.
RUM (CONTD)
I got it. Hello? No, this isnt
Clancy OGradys Cat and Kimche
restaurant.
He shows minimal signs of perspiration.
RUM (CONTD)
Go on.
3.
HERCULES
I was in a very bright room full of
strangers. My eyes couldnt focus.
I wasnt sure what to do, so I just
froze. Thats when I was assaulted.
RUM
Assaulted? How so?
HERCULES
That same guy that dragged me out
of my house gave me a right hook.
Then he stuck some device up my
nose and down my throat. I tell
you, If I had any teeth he would
have lost a finger or two.
CLOSE on wall clock. It reads 2 AM.
Rum shows a little more perspiration.
RUM
What did you think about that?
HERCULES
What do you mean what did I think.
Jesus Christ, give me the juice
now.
Deadpan stare from Rum. Loud noise of passing gas.
Rum shrugs his shoulders.
RUM
Were there any witnesses to the
assault on you?
HERCULES
Listen ant brain, I just told you I
was in a room full of strangers.
Im sure they saw the beating I
took.
RUM
Did you recognize anyone?
Hercules takes lollipop out of mouth, bangs against his head.
Breathes in and holds pop up.
HERCULES
On second thought I did. One of
them was my mom.
4.
(MORE)
I dont think she saw me get my ass
whipped because she was crying. My
dad, well, he couldnt stand the
sight of me, he passed out. The
rest of the gang members I didnt
know.
RUM
What were you feeling at this
point?
HERCULES
I thought I was in a low budget B
movie. I was covered in blood from
head to toe.
CLOSE on clock. It reads 5 AM.
We hear knock on door.
ALYSSA, (18) waitress enters with tray of hot tea and
teacups.
Sets them down, exits.
We see ANTS IN THE PANTS game on table.
HERCULES (CONTD)
You wanna get that for me? I need a
hand.
Rum pulls out hand, places on table.
Rum pours a cup for Hercules.
MODERATOR (O.S.)
Gentlemen, ten minutes til post
time, ten minutes.
RUM
Now where was I? Oh, yeah, did you
try to fight back, or tell your
assaulter to stop?
We hear a loud passing of gas.
HERCULES
For crying out loud. This might be
worse than the chair.
Hercules pinches his nose with thumb and index fingers.
5.
HERCULES (CONT'D)
HERCULES (CONTD)
I yelled and screamed. No one came
to my aid. It was a big conspiracy.
RUM
Did anyone try to intervene?
Hercules looks up, left, right.
HERCULES
Warden! Warden! Is this guy deaf?
No one came to my rescue, did you
not hear me?
RUM
Thats not what you told the police
according to this report.
Rum holds up incident report document.
HERCULES
Well, eventually some lady wearing
a cheap welders mask snatched me
from the child beater. I stand
corrected.
Rum Rises from chair.
RUM
And I stand to let another one
loose.
We hear an extra long gas bomb. Rum sits back down.
Alyssa enters room with assorted muffins. Sniffs, frowns.
ALYSSA
What died in here?
RUM
They dont call me Rum Poder the
exploder for nothing.
Alyssa exits.
CLOSE on wall clock. It reads 7 AM.
Hercules noshes and sips tea.
RUM (CONTD)
So Herc, would you call this welder
lady your guardian angel?
6.
HERCULES
For a second, yes. Then the
impromptu yoga class arrived. She
stretched my arms and legs out to
maximum length and measured me.
That was rough.
RUM
And after that (ahem) yoga class,
what happened?
HERCULES
Well, thankfully, she gave me a
warm sponge bath and massage. I
think she charged my parents some
$75.00 for it.
RUM
So at this point, youre all
cleaned up. How were you feeling?
HERCULES
I was so-so. I was still upset
about that guy who abused me while
the others stood around and
watched. Before I caught his name,
he was gone.
Rum shakes his head in approval. Then makes a face and rips a
loud one.
Hercules shakes his head.
HERCULES (CONTD)
Anyway, the masseuse lady finally
gave me some warm clothes to cover
up.
RUM
That must have made you feel a
little better.
HERCULES
No, not really. The outfit was
hideous, and the beret she wrestled
onto my dome was way too big.
Rum takes a quick sip of tea.
RUM
At least you werent naked anymore.
7.
HERCULES
Youre right I wasnt. But I was
embarrassed to be out in the free
world looking the way I did.
RUM
Free world? What do you mean by
that?
Hercules twirls the lollipop in his finger tips, thinking.
HERCULES
What do I mean? I mean I didnt
realize I was incarcerated. I was
in jail.
Rum softly laughs at the comment.
RUM
Jail? Youre telling me you were in
jail?
HERCULES
Yes, jail. Look at me, Im still in
jail you clown. Ask me something
else before I cut that Chia Pet off
your chin.
Rum takes offense and strokes his chin hairs.
Hercules sips his tea.
RUM
I get it. What happened after you
were given some warms clothes?
HERCULES
Im sorry what?
RUM
I said, what happened after you
were given the warm clothes?
HERCULES
After the clothing fiasco I was
given back to my mother. She was
talking the same way as the others.
Rum intently listens, nods.
HERCULES (CONTD)
And I thought to myself, This is
going to be just great. It was
very odd though.
8.
Rum looks down, and leans left in his chair.
RUM
Ha, just kidding ya. You were
saying?
Hercules shakes his head in disapproval, continues.
HERCULES
It was odd because my mom acted
like she knew what I was saying.
Heck, I didnt know what I was
saying.
RUM
Sounds like you had it pretty
tough. What occurred next?
HERCULES
After all the trauma and
calisthenics, I was quite hungry.
One of the unnamed witnesses stuck
some round rubber thing in my mouth
and force fed me. It tasted like
vomit.
Phone rings. CLOSE on phone. Rum picks up.
RUM
Hello, Mr. Governor? No, this isnt
the phone company, Oh you ARE the
phone company. One second, let me
put you on hold.
Rum hits hold button, hangs up receiver, giggles.
RUM (CONTD)
Screw them. Now, why did they force
the rubber thing in your mouth?
HERCULES
I had no idea. I figured I better
play along before I took another
beating. After a while I got used
to it. I guess I was pretty hungry.
I ate and crashed.
Alyssa enters room with fruit tray, including the dreaded
seedless watermelon.
Rum eyes watermelon, perspires.
Hercules grabs a slice and chows.
9.
RUM
I wouldnt if I was you.
Hercules chomps on melon.
HERCULES
What do I have to lose?
RUM
Well, I guess nothing. Can you tell
me about the prison you were in?
HERCULES
Isnt that why were here you bozo?
Listen carefully, this happens more
often than you think. This is the
therapeutic relief for all the
others that have gone through this.
CLOSE on Hercules juice-ridden face.
RUM
Im waiting. Unless the governor
calls, youre going to have 100,000
volts running through you in about
seven minutes. Lets put a move on.
Shot of clock.
HERCULES
Listen chubbs, Im getting sizzled,
not you.
Shot of bacon landing in an oily frying pan.
Rum stares at watermelon.
We hear stomach gurgling sounds.
RUM (V.O.)
Im never gonna make it.
Rum leans, lets a watery one loose.
HERCULES
Will you cut the crap?
RUM
Pardon me. Lets continue. The
prison. You were describing the
prison.
10.
HERCULES
I woke in a dormitory setting
surrounded by other inmates. The
place stunk. Most cellies were
crying or sleeping. What a
depressing place.
RUM
Sounds like it.
HERCULES
The kid next to me bawled like a
baby, and smelled like diarrhea
soup, which I found out later was
lurking in his diaper.
We hear more stomach gurgling.
RUM
I know the feeling.
Massive spewing of a gasser.
HERCULES
I called him Mr. Stinkles. He must
of had some bad moo goo gai pan
from the Chinese take out across
the street. I knew I was in the
slammer.
RUM
What else convinced you that you
were a prisoner?
HERCULES
We all had a plastic GPS tracker
attached to our ankles. I tell ya,
modern technology. I didnt know
what to do so I just stared at the
ceiling until I dozed off.
Alyssa enters and takes away teapot and cups. Exits.
RUM
Sounds like you were getting
settled into your new surrHERCULES
Listen crater face, no one gets
settled into this type of place.
RUM
What do you mean?
11.
HERCULES
The masseuse lady was back before I
knew it. I thought I was going to
get another Turkish bath. But, oh
no, she just changed my diaper.
RUM
Was it full?
HERCULES
Not as full as the bad breath
aliens in your mouth right now.
Rum licks his chops. Burps. Blows towards Hercules.
HERCULES (CONTD)
No it wasnt full. The girl next to
me, hers was full. I just had a few
skid marks. But it wasnt a
pleasant smell. Then I thought, did
they force feed me chop suey?
Phone rings. Hercules and Rum look at phone.
Rum perspires, sweat beads down forehead.
RUM
Mr. Governor? No, this isnt Bobby
break your legs the bookie. Geez.
HERCULES
Who was it?
RUM
Wrong number. Anyway, did you think
you were ever going to leave the
dorm?
HERCULES
At first no. Then after one of my
force feedings, I noticed Mr.
Stinkles got transferred out of the
unit. Man was I happy to see him
go.
RUM
Did you ever run into him during
rec time?
HERCULES
No, but if I did I would have
punched his lights out.
12.
MODERATOR (O.S.)
Five minutes, five minutes to post
time.
Alyssa enters and retrieves muffins. Exits.
CLOSE on clock.
RUM
Did a new prisoner take his cell?
HERCULES
Its jail you dumb-ass. Theyre
always filling the cells. The new
inmate was a monster. He had to
weigh about 14 pounds. I was afraid
of him, everyone was afraid of him.
RUM
Youre not so tough are you?
HERCULES
I can hold my own cowboy, but this
dude was big. I tried to keep my
distance. Unfortunately for me,
every time I was awake he was
filling his diaper, sawing wood, or
both.
Shot of fruit on table. CLOSE on watermelon.
HERCULES (CONTD)
You gonna have any melon?
RUM
No, that stuff is dangerous. Oh
boy.
Rum leans and fires off a healthy sounding gasser.
HERCULES
You better check your trunks.
Rum cheeks left, right. We hear squish-squash sounds.
RUM
I read in your bio that you hatched
an escape plan. Did you get far?
HERCULES
What do you think you idiot. I was
dealing with a bunch of kids. They
were of no help.
13.
(MORE)
Besides, my diaper rash and colic
made it impossible. So I slept as
much as possible.
RUM
Every time you sleep, something bad
happens. Did that trend continue?
CLOSE on clock.
HERCULES
Now youre catching on Einstein.
The yoga lady came back. No yoga,
no bath, no nothing. I thought,
this can not be good.
RUM
And?
HERCULES
She packed up my stuff, well, there
wasnt anything to pack. Anyway,
she picked me up and brought me to
the wardens office.
Rum leans to side. Splat!
RUM
Pardon me.
Hercules leans to his side. Splat! Splat!
HERCULES
Two can play that game you know.
Rum grins, nods head, whisks air away from nose. Coughs.
RUM
Getting back tot the warden, did
you think you were in trouble?
HERCULES
I didnt know what to think. My mom
and dad were there waiting, all
smiles. If they only knew the hell
I went through they wouldnt be
smiling.
RUM
What happened next?
Hercules inserts another lollipop into mouth.
14.
HERCULES (CONT'D)
HERCULES
The warden signed my release
papers.
RUM
That was good right?
Hercules takes out pop from mouth, stares at Rum.
HERCULES
Ill give ya good Mr. Potato Head.
I was leaving Hospital County Jail.
BUT, I was headed for supervised
home release. Parole, you jerk.
RUM
How was that for you?
HERCULES
It sucked. I longed for my old
cellmates. My parents put me in
solitary confinement.
RUM
What do you mean?
HERCULES
You are stupid arent you? Yeah, I
had my own room and a bigger cell,
but so were the bars. No way I was
getting out.
MODERATOR (O.S.)
Two minutes, two minutes to post
time.
Shot of clock.
RUM
Were you able to sleep better?
HERCULES
A little bit. I had dreams of
holding my head up. I had dreams of
sitting up and burping myself. I
had visions of elaborate feasts
instead of that puke they were
feeding me.
RUM
What was stopping you from doing
those things?
15.
HERCULES
I wasnt strong enough nasal oyster
nose. Uh oh.
Hercules leans and fires off a bun vent round.
Rum and Hercules nod and say watermelon together.
CLOSE on watermelon with ants crawling on it.
RUM
You did have a bigger cell.
HERCULES
Yes I did. It was full of fake
dogs, giraffes, and bears. Not one
of them said a word. If I had a
hunting rifle in my cell, they
would have been dead meat.
Phone rings.
Rum perspires more. Water runs down forehead and cheeks.
RUM
Mr. Governor? Who? Hold on hes
right here.
HERCULES
Yes mom, yes, I made my bed mom, I
brushed my teeth mom. Yes, I have a
clean pair of underwear on mom. Yes
mom, Its on TV mom.
Rum grimaces, lets a bomb go. Disperses air.
CLOSE on ants.
Love you too mom, yeah, you can
shred the visitors pass, yes mom,
and the parking pass, okay, bye.
CLOSE on ants all over food and table.
RUM
How have you been able to survive
such trauma?
HERCULES
I took solace in the bible and
found God.
The Final Countdown song is heard.
16.
MODERATOR (O.S.)
One minute, one minute to post
time.
RUM
Its almost time. Any final
thoughts?
HERCULES
Yeah, I think I hate you.
Executioner, dressed in all black, smiley face on chest, face
concealed, enters room.
Phone rings.
Rum sweats profusely.
Hercules inserts another pop.
RUM
What. Mr. Governor? Yes, this is
he. Pardon? Yes sir. Thanks for the
call.
HERCULES
Did he pardon me?
RUM
No he said pardon yourself after
you pass gas.
MODERATOR (O.S.)
Time to wrap it up. The witnesses
are in place.
CLOSE on thousands of ants in witness room.
RUM
Why did you kill so many?
HERCULES
I took enjoyment out of seeing them
suffer and that I could easily
overpower them. They were just
ants.
MODERATOR (O.S.)
Lets go, Sparkys warmed up.
RUM
Last question, do you blame anyone
or feel any remorse?
17.
HERCULES
Maybe I should blame you, you
Neanderthal. I feel no remorse.
Ive been on death row for 15
years, so Im ready. I was just
doing what any five year old kid
would do.
Rum, with mouth agape, looks at Hercules.
Executioner arms Hercules up from his chair.
HERCULES (CONTD)
If Im going to the chair for
killing ants, then that will be my
legacy.
RUM
Bad attitude.
We hear The Trial by Pink Floyd.
In slow motion, Executioner leads Hercules to door with sign
that reads Fry me a river below a picture of an electric
chair.
They walk through.
Shot of clock. It blinks all zeroes.
Lights flicker, we hear zapping sounds.
HERCULES
Ahhhhhhhewwwwwwweeeeeoooooohhhhhh.
MYSTERIOUS MAN
You got the wrong guy.
We hear Billy Joel verse, and so it goes, and so it goes,
and so will you soon I suppose, from And so it Goes.
Right after the line And so it goes
RUM (V.O.)
And so goes Hercules Smothers,
inmate number 5293, erased from the
system, off to a new world. Arent
we all just ants? Or, are we more
like Hercules? You be the judge.
THE END
Credits c.2013
18.
19.